---
date: "2019-05-28"
title: "glittering"
tags:
  - snippets
  - embodiment
---
a scanning within me. like waves sent through me, and i am absorbing and not absorbing; like radiation. there’s no fancy machine but you can tell that my insides are shimmering, that my nerves are electric and fried. i am wavering as if embodied in an unsteady transmission, stable enough that i seem solid, stable enough that i am solid, but being solid doesn’t mean i’m not also buzzing and unreal. there’s a strange shaking inside of me, tiny vibrations muted in this solid, tender body of mine, and i can sense the resistance inside of me, the strange resistance.

when there is an imperceptible glittering inside of you, all those little tasks that usually take no energy and no mind-space start to shine: mountain or molehill, it is an incline. walking over to the dresser. reaching for the bottle of sunscreen. shutting the bathroom door. putting your left foot into your left shoe. so you take deep breaths and say nice words and cajole yourself into moving forward, and you try not to think too hard about the resistance inside of you. and it works. somewhere within your thinking — the decisions that you pretend and the decisions that you mean; resolutions hollow or genuine; till finally you find yourself doing something, anything at all — come all these signals through neuromuscular junctions and all these muscle contractions and all this movement.


i’ve gotta say, i don’t think i’ve ever properly willed a sodium ion influx or a calcium ion diffusion. i’ve gotta say, i don’t know if i’ve ever properly willed anything at all.

there is a quivering inside of me, there is a somatic resistance inside of me, and sometimes i have to face the fact that even if i am radically free, i am also biological, i am also psychological. sometimes it scares me and sometimes i glitter.
