---
date: "2019-01-26"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## january 26: a vase for a rose

single stem roses on sale, $2. i read the sign on my way to work.

the words didn’t sink in immediately. there’s a lot to read each day — so much writing vying for the attention of passersby. i continued on my way — a passerby. but some seed had been planted within me, and as i worked that day, the seed germinated and started to grow. by the time i finished work, i was resolved: if that little flower-store was open, i would go in, would buy a rose. it seemed so straightforward.

it isn’t that i didn’t think about the matter further. i could not quite believe that i was serious, and i checked again with myself. but i was serious — so serious, indeed, that whatever surprise i would have felt at myself was subsumed in my resolution, only empowering the resolution with its stirrings of life.

a rose, purchased, two dollars on sale. “is this for anyone?” the woman at the counter asked. i was at a loss, but gathered words: “i’m not sure.”  (is a confession a confession if you do not know what you are admitting?) — she smiled. “i’ll put a bow on it. — just in case.”

two dollar bills; a receipt for a rose. and then i was out the door, carrying this rose (so red, so deep and bright and beautiful) with not a seed of a plan to take it anywhere. if only there had been a fluttering of butterflies’ wings (light, insistent) in my stomach —! but i was solid and quiet and dense.

what is one supposed to do upon receipt of a rose for which one has no plan? — a question to which i have no answer. neglected but not forgotten, it lay on my desk for two days, waiting only to wilt. but the guilt mounted inside me, as though i were disrespecting the flower, and finally i hung it up to dry.
tamed, eternal, so close to dust: a dried rose.

this morning i woke up with a vision of this rose standing graceful in a glass vase. i did not have a glass vase, but that was no matter — straightforward, i marched from store to store until i found a vase with dignity enough for this flower.

and what dignity the rose has. how beautiful it is! my heart is filled with admiration. finally now, i can recognize that it is beautiful.
