---
date: "2019-05-12"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## may 12: time dissipates

and time passes inexorably. some days are fuller than others.

sometimes i look at the past and it feels like time just dissipated. days on which the seconds and minutes and hours just flaked off the present and floated out into the ether, and all you can really say is that you have breathed the breaths for another day.

this used to scare me a lot. coming out of a movie theater as a seven-year-old, i exclaimed in despair, “i’ll never get those two hours back!” — and still, there is something deep inside of me that cannot handle wasted time. and as these weeks have stretched on (—empty—) that piece of me has gotten more and more and more riled up. a twisting inside; a cranking of a handle; potential rising. and i have heard its whisper in my heart, but my responses (—half-hearted—) were not enough. and so the whisper turned into a shout. you have to move forward. you have to make mistakes and love people and stake your time in something. you have to go on.

i think of growing older and of my life shifting into routine; and in many ways, the thought is contenting. there is a kind of regularity which i thrive in. but in another way, the thought is terrifying. in times of happiness, the existential questions hang just a single level above head; and in times of misery, less. in times of misery, you’re just in a muck, be it of questions or confusion or simple ineffectiveness. i romanticize the idea of having a job and a family and a routine because i hope that living that life would mean i had stopped facing the other questions. but i don’t think it works like that. i don’t know if the empty and the full will ever balance out like that.

i have learned how to resign myself to the empty days of my past. i have learned to forgive myself, and to recognize that there is a coming-to-terms even within that emptiness; and i have learned how to take the pressure off. but days add up to weeks add up to months add up to years. and i am not sure i have learned to accept and forgive months and years of emptiness, yet.
