---
date: "2019-04-10"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## april 10: composure at the committee meeting

her expression was inscrutable. the meeting was going terribly: two usually-thoughtful faculty members had failed to do the preparatory reading, but nevertheless started talking, and kept talking, and wouldn’t stop talking. the comments were neither relevant nor helpful — they somehow managed to diss her field of expertise without even recognizing it was a field. we were stuck at the introduction, so bogged down by false objections that she didn’t have the chance to explain what she was there to talk about. i watched subtle social cues fall flat, and then i watched verbal cues be trampled over.

through this horrific forty-five minutes, she and i kept making eye contact. i think, it was clear i was getting frustrated. there were real questions to be explored: could these men who did not know what they were talking about please be quiet, so that we could get to the point? (i’ve never been good at looking impassive.) but her expression was straight — practiced. forced patience, as she continually took little opportunities to move forward, to explain, to insist on her own authority, before they would start steamrolling again. this composure must be a skill. but within that coolness, she was looking at me, as i looked at her.

her expression was inscrutable. i don’t know if she and i were sharing in the absurdity of the situation, or if she was merely watching me think the situation was absurd. professionalism demands distance, i suppose.

there’s something so admirable in that composure: and yet it scares me, how distant she seemed, how careful the rules were that governed her behavior. sometimes being a woman in the professional world seems so lonely.

in the end, i burst out. found a gap in the co-chair’s monologue, and said (with force, frustration) this would all be cleared up if we could just hear about the new system, please. i was almost embarrassed, to lack that professional distance. but it worked. he shut up; we moved on.

i hope i am able to learn composure. but i hope that composure can coexist with necessary amounts of force and directness; and i hope that composure doesn’t make the world a lonely, lonely place to be.
