---
date: "2019-07-21"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 21: (in)appropriate drifting

there was never a particular moment in which i decided not to go to graduate school right out of undergrad. i did not make a list of pros and cons; i did not carefully weigh it as one option among several. instead, i held it as a possibility, until i simply stopped holding it as a possibility. i said, maybe this is something i would want; till the time came, and i didn’t particularly want it. i just didn’t have a compelling reason to go. and grad school is not the kind of thing one should drift into. one would need a cogent notion of why. and, not having one — at this point, the whole idea of going to grad school out of undergrad seems ridiculous.

the list of things i think it is inappropriate to drift into is growing. grad school is on there, as i have said. but so are things like friendship, especially close friendship. — if i don’t like, appreciate, or enjoy being around someone: i probably shouldn’t develop a close friendship with them. it’s not about opportunity cost. it’s more fundamental than that. something about the situation itself, and the activity you engage in, and the ways you make yourself vulnerable. you can hurt and frustrate yourself, in strangely deep ways, when you drift into something it is inappropriate to drift into.

of course, i don’t know which things i think it is appropriate to drift into; and some amount of drifting does seem inevitable. there’s a sense in which i just don’t feel like i have enough information or enough of a sense of self, to always make decisions which are willful at every level — to always have options i am seriously considering, and to decide thoughtfully between them. but i suppose i am learning about the world, and i am learning about myself; and as i think and drift i feel, i will continue to learn what domains i need to be deliberate in, and how to be deliberate within them.
