---
date: "2019-06-19"
title: "god differentiated"
tags:
  - snippets
  - bigThoughts
---
the opposite of chaos isn’t order: it’s differentiation.

the mess before the separation was undifferentiated. light and darkness, or the waters and the waters: all blended together, unorientable. — chaos.

genesis tells: god created, and god separated. but that does not mean that god organized. the point of separating light from darkness need not be to put light in a little box labeled “light” and to put darkness in a separate little box labeled “darkness.” — does not mean that this universe is clean and straightforward, or that wholeness and symmetry are the ultimate in beauty. genesis is not a classification story; it does not need to be read for sharp edges.

god created; god differentiated; and god called it good.

i look out at the world around me, sometimes, and i see messiness. senseless suffering and vestigial organs. — and you’re telling me this is all god’s plan, and expecting that to be comfort? you’re embracing the rigid hierarchy in the church, and you’re talking about truth and goodness as through you knows what those things are, and you’re quoting aquinas like all your questions are answered. but my questions aren’t answered. i would be ignoring a whole lot of richness in this world, if i insisted in fitting it into this catalog scheme.

(if you can’t tell me god’s aesthetic sense isn’t baroque, you can’t tell me god’s aesthetic sense isn’t avant garde, either.)

but look at this world, in its differentiation! look at the variety of it! night and day and dusk; sea and land and shore; there is so much to move through. perhaps god spun threads in the separation; but this tapestry is tightly-woven.
