---
date: "2019-07-22"
title: "however strange that love was"
tags:
  - snippets
  - aLover
---
she kept asking what he meant to me. as though i would have an answer: as though the relationship were symbolic to its root. she was right to ask. i understood so at the time; i understood the question, and i asked it to myself, carefully, thoughtfully. it wasn’t clear how could i have ended up where i was at, if something in me wasn’t tending toward the uncomfortably literary. but i never had an answer for her.

within the manifold what-has-happened of course arose conceptual implications. about who he was; about what the space was, we built; about who i was, within that space; about who i was, in caring about him. i find that bundle of experience weaving its way into my thoughts now, often; as example, as touchpoint for sorting through this world. but whatever meaning i have scraped from the experience, that could be tagged with his name — it isn’t literary, and it isn’t what was motivating me then. it came after. it isn’t the core.

you don’t act because you have a reason: you act because of the reason itself.

this all is still strange to me. so much happened in those years that i can frame as me alone, engaged in a solitary project, trying to work through how i felt and how i was going to deal with it. it’s a palatable framing. — goes down easy. (even in the midst of it: the little i spoke of him, i spoke of him as though i were already distant, already done, already having accepted that i had been making a mistake.) little has too hard an edge, once you conceive of yourself as a psychological being.

i am psychological: but i am also alive and full of feeling. it would lack integrity to attend only to the distance, and not also to the intimacy.

so, fine — even if it was juvenile, doesn’t mean it wasn’t real. — it might not be the same care as what comes next: but that doesn’t mean it wasn’t important in itself. something was searing, something was vital.

felt like flesh on a frozen volleyball pole — so close it hurt.
