---
date: "2019-03-26"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## march 26: pulling sensation from ickiness

pain — a finger smashed in a door. brain levels collapse: pain, pain, pain.

the bleeding stopped quickly, and for a time, the finger was just throbbing: has there ever been a clearer way to notice your own heartbeat?

half an hour later, the rest of my body was freaking out — in panic, in pain. and yet i felt a confusion. there was a discomfort in my finger, yes: but i was safe, and the injury was contained, and did it even hurt that badly? it seemed like my body was overreacting.

i focused in on the feeling in my finger. just another kind of sensation, i repeated to myself. a deep breath. i did not want to ignore the feeling, not yet. i wanted to be aware of just how much of my body felt familiar; i wanted to be aware of the different specific sensations in the top part of my left hand’s middle finger, to notice as those sensations came and went. — without judging, without reading my perception as pain — or at least, without reading the pain as something to provoke further action or response. to just feel it.

this is easier said than done, of course. but the attempt did something. i pulled my body back into calm till the painkiller could kick in — calm presence.

sometimes my whole body clenches up, and i can feel the tension held inside of me, and i can feel the fear and worry held inside of me. sometimes i can feel my own insides, can perceive my own pulse inside of me, can feel the zinging presence of my own body parts. somatic experiences, new as of a month ago. i am learning what to do with myself.

but here i am, learning how to feel — to feel pain, physical and psychological — to perceive sensation and emotion — inside of me.
