---
date: "2019-02-08"
title: "this world is implausible"
tags:
  - snippets
  - bigThoughts
---
there’s this phenomenon that happens surprisingly often, in which you realize how implausibly strong some theory is…and then you realize how implausibly strong its negation is. sometimes there can be a question of, are you presupposing something false? — but very often you just have to stop for a moment and recognize how implausible reality itself is.

i talk to people sometimes who say, the burden of proof is on the theist; the default position should be one of non-belief, and here, non-belief in god. and perhaps that’s right. but the notion of god does seem, sometimes, to have explanatory power: and i wonder how truly those convinced atheists have held the weight of what there is to be explained. — if they recognize that theism is a strong position, but have not genuinely asked themselves whether atheism is a strong position as well.

is there evidence for god? — i don’t have any idea what evidence for god would even look like, and so this question seems almost absurd to me.  as such, it’s not that my credence in the existence of some supernatural power has ever gone up — partially because i don’t know what to make of the supernatural, but mostly because it doesn’t make much sense to me to have a credence in such a thing. what does happen, though, is that this world starts to seem miraculous.

i find it incredibly hard sometimes to really believe in the objects of my own experience. bottled water, libraries, the san andreas fault, trees, media access control protocols, genocide, architecture, mushrooms, thermometers, high school principals, the free press, after-dinner mints: what the fuck? i know these things are out there, but golly gee are they weird. evolution and social theory might be able to account for the causality of it all — but that doesn’t really answer the feeling of, why is anything here at all, and how the heck did it get so out of hand?

and so i try to turn outward — to be open to this world and to be grateful for what there is.
