---
date: "2019-08-09"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## august 9: maybe she's not coming back, next semester

some things shake you. even as you hold yourself together, you can feel the buzzing in your chest, the strain in your chest, something is pulling; and you take a deep breath, but it’s still there. till it’s 10pm and you’re crying in the grocery store; holding a crown of broccoli in one hand and feeling upset.

some things shake you. you don’t always respond with stress or fear or surprise. it doesn’t always have to feel bad. sometimes you just feel upset.  there’s something to recognize here, and i’m recognizing it: a process i can hold in myself as proper, as healthy. (if there’s something to mourn, it’s appropriate and important eventually to feel grief.) — sometimes emotions overcome you but don’t overwhelm you. i can be shaken and whole at the same time.

some things shake you. but, get shaken up enough and sometimes important things surface. love and fear and reflections. i care for her so fiercely. i feel so grateful for her friendship. and i recognize what a strain there has been, in these last many months. tonight the space of possibilities shifted, and my happy anticipation was supplanted by uncertainty. there has been something to mourn, and finally i can see it.

some things shake you. and then you settle yourself out, and although you’re still tender, you now have a sense so clear and bright of what is important and how to move forward. and move forward you do.

i felt shaken. i don’t feel shaken, any more. rather: i have trust in the scaffolding, and i feel sad — tenderly and earnestly sad.
