---
date: "2019-07-13"
title: "getting my body back"
tags:
  - snippets
  - embodiment
---
“her unfinished right hand reaches back and touches her left wrist, as if to confirm the physical reality of her flesh.” - museum label for jean-auguste-dominique ingres’s study for “roger freeing angelica” (1818).

•

i feel like my nervous system has been rearranged. every sensation softer, richer; less electric. it is a striking difference.

i keep noticing how newly solid and organic my body feels. i wipe the sleep out of my eyes, and the way my index finger feels against the bridge of my nose is different. i scratch my ankle or my jaw, and the way my nails feel against my skin is different. there’s novelty in the repose. when i am alone, i sometimes have found myself running my fingertips along my forearms or chin or the back of my neck, or gripping my wrists or knees or upper arms; just in wonder at the calm of the sensation. i feel like some siren-circuit in me has been quieted. i had forgotten what it feels like to be embodied in this way.

there’s a memory i have, from summers and summers ago, of a kiss on the back of my hand. it was a saturday afternoon, and we were young, and his lips were soft. — something slow and light and genuine. i remember how the gesture felt: so tender; and myself steady.

at times in the last year, i have struggled to understand that memory. i have struggled to understand how i was embodied, then, to have felt that steadiness and tenderness and sweetness. but, with this change —  i understand, now; i understand, again.
