---
date: "2019-01-20"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# january 20: art is powerful & hence dangerous

art can be so intensely affecting. something about it gets so core to the human experience. as such, it has power.

sometimes, i listen to music and i can feel it elevating me. choral music often seems to meet me where i am at, but them to bring me up — i feel more grounded, more aware, more contemplative, as the song progresses.

of course, not every song is elevating. they pull in different directions. a song for angst about god. for ambivalence about saying goodbye. for thoughtful impulsivity. for reveling in teenagerhood. for melancholy intimacy.  for self-confusion. for looking out at the world with fondness.

and there’s something so important about having music that expresses this whole range of human experience, and the richness of it all — the pains and delights of living in this precious world. but it’s also something to be careful of, deliberate about. do you want right now to be listening to music that is validating your suffering, or music that will help you to pull yourself out of it? the former is a legitimate answer: indeed, we all need time to process. but the question is a legitimate one, too.
i’ve wondered, sometimes, what would happen if i listened only to choral music, instrumental music, and hymns for a month or two. for a while, this felt out of grasp. something strong inside of me was reaching out for a little irreverence, or the frustrated mundanity of hurt. but sometimes now brahms feels like enough irreverence to sate that need.

(of course, an old TA used to say that only those with disordered souls could enjoy brahms. but if that’s true — i would choose to have a chaotic soul.)
