---
date: "2019-05-06"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## may 6: brokenness, my project

brokenness is not a word i used to resonate with. in the diagram two christian missionaries-in-training wrote out for me two summers ago, it was the word of the contrast between the people’s world and god’s world — broken (sinful, death) versus awesome (righteous, just, loving) — and the contrast was too clean, too shallow, and it felt disingenuous. i could not in faith look out at our world and see only brokenness, fear, and suffering; i did not want to give up on this world. and then “broken” was a word a friend claimed, for the state he found himself in. but did he think he needed to be fixed or to be healed? — when he asked me if i was broken, i clenched up. something was wrong inside of me: but i was not broken.

but a human is fragile. if you take on the weight of the world, it will crush you. it is not clear how we manage to live out our lives, being the kind of beings we are, in the kind of world we live in. there are large-scale structural defects in human life, and they matter call it brokenness, if you will: it is something, and it can hurt.

how, then, do we deal with ourselves in this world — this world we sometimes seem so ill-fitted for? there are different approaches. leave your own defects behind: overcome what is human in enlightenment. leave the world’s defects behind: declare that it is god’s world that really matters. alternatively, refuse to face this question: hide from the world, and just withdraw. but my hope is to find some other answer. — a way to orient myself (in my brokenness) in this world (in its brokenness) so that i can manage to live in it, wholeheartedly.

this is the project i have been engaged in for the last two years, and it is a project i have to imagine will continue. i go to church and i read philosophy and i talk to friends and to acquaintances and i listen to radio shows and i see art and i think. and it helps — i am learning — but how far there is to go. i don’t have beliefs yet; indeed, even if i were to find this posture, i don’t know if i would believe it right to take it. but here i am, seeking.
