---
date: "2019-07-27"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 27: re-orienting around technology

as a kid, i loved the two obsolete palm pilots kicking around my house. i learned to write character strokes with the little stylus; i made up events to put in the calendar. but best of all, the two palm pilots were equipped with infrared messaging. that is, you could write something on the one and then — if the two devices were lined up correctly, closely — you could /beam/ it to the other. i thought that was the coolest thing.

i think about those palm pilots a lot these days. i feel like i’m eternally trying to figure out what my relationship with my phone and laptop should be, and i don’t feel like i ever have it quite right. whatever i found so endearing about the palm pilots is missing, in my phone.

the palm pilots weren’t overwhelming. i didn’t get lost in them; i used them; deliberately. as a child playing, i felt organized and in-control, to make up to-do lists and write notes and come back to them. and beaming — well! that was a careful coordination between two palm pilots. if information on one device was important to another: i could transfer that information to where it needed to go. the realm was finite, and action within it, deliberate.

it’s time for me to think about how i can re-orient around my phone, so that instead of seeing it primarily as a connection to the internet (particularly social media and news) and to people, unfiltered (through messaging apps), i might see it primarily as a tool useful for chosen ends. as such, today, among several other changes, i disallowed safari on my phone and re-arranged the apps so that, instead of messages and the internet being in focus, it is books, google keep, and notes which are emphasized. my phone can be a place where i read what i have already curated for myself, write what is on my mind, and check what my past self has decided i need to know. it can, primarily, be finite.

this evening, i airdropped three papers i’ve been meaning to read from my laptop to my phone. and, for the first time since beaming imagined meeting notes from one palm pilot to another, i felt thrilled at this technology.

it’s going to take some experimentation to figure out what sticks — but i am hopeful.
