---
date: "2019-01-15"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: fire sprinkler head & intimacy
---
<!-- # january 15: fire sprinkler head & intimacy -->

a fire sprinkler head stopped me short yesterday. usually, sprinklers are far above head — but i was on the stairs up out of the basement, and this one was startlingly close to me. i stared; later, i returned to take a picture of it. i know nothing of photography, and so it was with a confused urgency that i found myself asking again and again of the picture i had taken: *is it intimate enough?* — a strange question.

i have gained a lot of respect for *things* over the past few years. — look at them! so much is present, all of the time. there is something overwhelming in the existence of it all, and in the perpetual disclosing of all this existence. how sacred these objects are, and how deep a chord it strikes to give your attention to even the most ordinary of objects for a time.

there is a richness to things that lends legitimacy to the notion of being close to an object. there’s a sort of unity — of matter, in form, with the idea of that it is you’re talking about and how it came to be that way — that results in the thing itself lying present before you. when we attend to an object — when we access it through some mode of its presentation — when we use an artifact — there is a real (and not merely geographic) sense in which we are being close to them.

of course, i have done no justice to the fire sprinkler head & cage i saw. my apologies. but i invite you to keep a lookout — for a sprinkler head, or for really any object at all to appreciate. there is time for ontology & reflections on production processes later. for now, with sanctity, take a moment just to see.
