---
date: "2019-07-04"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# july 4: parity -- how are you gonna decide?

the inside of me feels light: like my organs all are made from tissue paper crafted into exquisite organic shape; wafer upon wafer. emptiness; fullness; coarse awareness of myself as unformed, unfinished, and undeveloped.

i don’t know how to distinguish incomparability from parity, arationality from self-determination. will the eventual unfolding of my future — the career i have, the city i live in, the people i surround myself with—  arise out of exercise in existential agency or rational agency, or will it be agency at all? plump, pick, drift.

when you pick: when you determine yourself, qua rational agent, to one option over another, when before the two were on a par: you reaffirm a value; in doing so, you give value, yourself; and you can choose that corresponding decision with autonomy. but: which value is it, that you will re-affirm? — how will you go about deciding that? (to pick: a regress. to drift: an unsteady foundation. to plump: because you’ve gotta make a choice, one way or the other. — i don’t feel like i have a handle on this.) a choice is still hard, even when you recognize it as hard. because, how are you gonna make that decision?

sometimes it feels like i need to wait and see what my decisions are, to figure out what i value, to evaluate if i am developing in ways in keeping with my values. this sentiment is unhelpful and imprecise, but i can’t quite bring myself to say it is ridiculous. i guess, i am developing values; i am not able to evaluate how i am doing in this process; because ultimately, however it turns out, it will have turned out okay.

are you proud of who you are becoming? — the inside of me feels light. have i become, far enough?

(with gratitude and apologies to ruth chang, who has written about parity.)
