---
date: "2019-02-24"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## february 24: doubt in prior metaphysics

to encounter your own oversight; to encounter your own incoherence. sometimes, we hold beliefs without quite being aware that those beliefs have weight.

i would have told you, last november, that i did not believe in souls; but come december, when souls were dismissed immediately as a possible criterion for personal identity, i realized that i had been pretending to believe. i had never sat with the implications lacking a soul. i watched myself embrace empiricism in that class — but empiricism hurt on its way in. there was something i was mourning — unexpected.

and here it is again. even substance monism is different, radically different, than no substance at all. my ideas of immanence and revelation were grounded, i am coming to see, in a belief in substance monism. but the idea of substance is murky, and i do not think i have ever had faith in it. i just never considered that there was an alternative.

i have questions about if and how i can rebuild: what notion of self-disclosure can there be, in a world of properties only? — i was wondering if that christian rhetoric on god as a relational god could help with the reinterpretation, but i’m not so optimistic. it seems like maybe that relationship is between a self and a god, and i wonder how far that metaphysics goes down. there’s a gap there — a big gap. a gaping void.

faith and doubt and disbelief: i hope one day i will not oscillate (so wild, so confused) between these states.
