---
date: "2019-05-18"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# may 18: not fungible, but also not permanent

no: i do not think that friendships are fungible. not even a little bit.
unique, he said, again and again. the ways in which he is unique to me; the ways in which i am unique to him. fine: i don’t disagree that there isn’t a uniqueness to our friendship. but uniqueness itself is not a reason to stay.

there is a real and important sense in which all friendships are unique. i think of these people i have the delight and privilege to know, and my heart fills. we all have our particularities; and what a joy it is, to get to hold someone else’s particularities in your heart.

but some friendships end. yes: some friendships end for reasons.

friendships are not fungible. friends cannot merely be replaced. relationships with people are not just a way to fill roles that need to be filled. there is a building and a creating, and it is intimate, and it is important. it changes you; it matters; and there is a deep kind of value that you build together, to value a friendship that the two of you have created.

change is hard. change is hard, because it changes you. it changes what matters to you. it changes what surfaces in your heart. and before the change in you happens: it just hurts, raw and intense, in that painful mismatch between what you built and what continues to stand.

friendships are not fungible. when a friendship ends, you mourn it. you grieve. — and maybe that grief sticks with you. but just because there is a unique kind of value in a friendship, does not mean that the friendship has to be permanent. sometimes you have to let go. and in that letting-go: sometimes you have to let your values change — to let yourself change.

do you have to move forward before you can let yourself change? or do you have to let yourself change before you can move forward? — sometimes it feels like a catch-22. but somehow, we manage to do it.

change need not be self-betrayal. i don’t understand why yet. how is it, that we come to be unmoored from prior values? — but we do. friendships are not fungible, but sometimes they end, and end thoughtfully.
