---
date: "2019-01-25"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title:  at a loss at an ex-friend
---
<!-- # january 25: at a loss at an ex-friend -->

sometimes, you run into someone and you are at a loss.

you had a relationship with them, at some point. an acquaintanceship that bordered on a friendship. you had shared real conversations, and you had enjoyed those conversations. but something shifted.

maybe you two both know exactly what happened: maybe you had been close, maybe you had realized together that you could not be close any more. maybe neither of you knows exactly: the relationship just faded out, lost salience. maybe one of you knows exactly: i have not been able to maintain eye contact with him since i learned what he did to my friend. maybe, you are not the one who knows.

sometimes, the relationship (dead, cold) is a casualty of some larger mishap, and maybe neither of you has the details quite right. (—was the death of my friendship with them just collateral damage? — i do not know; i will never know.)

and then, somehow, you end up in a group of three: you, them, some mutual friend. it is casual; all you really need is forty-five seconds of small talk. but here? forty-five seconds of small talk is still too much. and you look away, and you get through it, but it is awkward and it hurts and the tension left unresolved when your friendship ended resurfaces.

i had really thought that i was long past some of these casualties, whether i fully understood them or not. but confronted with this tension today, i see i am not. there’s something painful, painful, painful about a friendship which ends unmourned.
