---
date: "2019-04-14"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## april 14: the-kind-of-person-who

identification of oneself as the-kind-of-person-who: a move i am chary of.

what i am is not built of descriptive principle. i am threaded together by structure, not resemblance: as a stack of coincident first-personal experience, i may be describable, but i am not set out through description. i find it strange, when others appeal to description to identify themselves: for who then would you be, if you were to change from this? (or who are you now, if you are wrong in your own self-description?) — these descriptions seem neither normative nor necessary.

this isn’t to say there are no true and revealing statements about people. just, oftentimes the more interesting statements are those that are localized. what are you feeling? what is salient? — stories from the past, thoughts about the world. particularity is a way towards intimacy. description is what is discovered — tentatively — not what is constitutive. it can provide helpful frameworks for understanding our own behavior: but there’s something to be careful of even in that.

this may be why i rather like astrology. emotional and sensitive are common descriptive threads ascribed to me: and yet there is not a single water sign in my natal chart. learning this didn’t make me doubt the truth in astrology; i already doubted that. instead, it gave me a different lens through which to conceive myself. how would i think of myself, if i thought of myself as fire and air? — it gave me hope. i’ve been a little tired of reading my own actions as watery, recently, and it drew my attention to how much else there is inside of me.

self-sorting may be helpful: but you are not merely a sorted being.
