---
date: "2019-07-18"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 18: self-conception is hard to balance

i think he believes that the way i am with him, is the deepest and realest way i am.

it is true? — ago, i would think of myself as a biology-textbook drawing of a plasmid: brightly-colored sectors of an annulus: and the question was just what part of this ring of self was being accessed or displayed. there was no structure, no deeper or less deep sector. there was just adjacency; and i was a ring spinning.

but some identities underlie others; and some values underlie behaviors. there is structure to self and there is structure to the ways in which i present myself.

when i speak so bright and energetic to the girl who understands little, i am performing. it is me, in the way all my particularities are me; but it is not me myself. there’s friction between the display and the self underneath; and too-late i see myself trying to break through; and being-underneath hurts. — structure can matter.

i am real with him. that i cannot deny. there’s something important in me that opens up to him. i would lose something important, to dismiss him; or to dismiss the values that hold in me, to value our friendship; or to dismiss the self i am with him.

and yet, still there is a friction. i am afraid to believe that the way i am with him is the deepest and realest way i am: and i do not think it is true. it has long been salient for me, that i will never marry him. somewhere is distance, somewhere is ill-fittingness. somewhere important.

and so i don’t know what to do with this friendship, and i do not know what to do with the part of me that appreciates the sanctity in this friendship. it is hard to conceive of that part of me as adjacent to the others. it keeps falling out or falling in. — i keep seeing it as the most real, or as not real at all. i can’t keep the balance, conceptually.

and so i feel at a loss. i don’t know what to do.
