---
date: "2019-07-29"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# july 29: associations my own (cleaning up)

recall, recognize, release. in encountering the world, his comments surface from memory. on little things, the minutiae of living. tensed shoulders and expiration dates and voice recognition — his words and actions threaded through my conceptions of such fragments, with the force of his scent; as though he had laid claim to them. but seamlessly, so seamlessly, has the edge of him fallen away from this accumulation of associations. i come across these patterns and objects he has discussed, and his comments surface: and i move forward, with my own thoughts and appreciations; his words only words.

it’s all happening this way. — like something intangible is just gone. for a day or two this july, i found myself able to listen to the songs that had taken on meaning, ago, without flinching. not quite like they were only songs: but certainly not like they were chasms. it’s absent from certain thoughts, too, about the world at large: a consideration which used to bite, now without the iciness of the plunge.

i feel like my insides fill up the container of my body completely; so that no cold-dark liquid seeps in underneath my skin. i feel like my body organic is a dielectric medium in a capacitor. i still feel a lot.

there’s a middle ground between being unmoveable, and having all of it cut deep into you. — namely, well-balanced emotional regulation. at times it seems like these regions are just contrasting colors on the same flat sheet, and i’ve been a marble rolling. but we’re all a-tumbling somewhere; but for now my tumbling feels steady.
