---
date: "2019-06-11"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# june 11: subtlety AND complexity

i’ve been avoiding complexity for the last three years. or at least: i have been seeking out an education in navigating subtlety. in study, i consider single entities whose properties i am learning to investigate and flesh out. even though they are often diaphanous and glassy: they feel like the sorts of things one could hold in one’s hands, in comparison to the messy, messy world beyond. finite fields and normativity and pronouns and the framework of hume’s empiricism — i don’t understand these things, but i have learned how to go about starting to know them — how to meet them. i took an entire class on /shapes/: and you understand how to make the acquaintance of a thing, after an full semester of thinking about shapes. and so i have learned to build up conceptual webs, and to navigate these strange objects.

but i’m starting to wonder if i’m ready to move into the messiness. to enter into a space in which models or emergent phenomena are what you are acquainted with, rather than the thing  you hope to be studying. in which you don’t hope to axiomatize your ultimate object of study, but rather to be able to predict its behavior, and act accordingly. in which not every data point you collect from this network or ecosystem will ultimately fit nicely with the analysis and interpretation you give of that data.  

i don’t understand what it is like to do that work (— indeed, i take my own explication above with a grain of salt). i don’t know if i am actually interested in it. but i know i feel ready to face it, in a way i didn’t, six months or a year ago: my foundational education helps.

and i wonder how different these activities really are — how much of this distinction is framing, and how much of it is substance.
