---
date: "2019-01-22"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: people who have already seen you awkward
---
<!-- # january 22: people who have already seen you awkward -->

you can tell a close friend most anything without fear of judgement. the friend loves you truly and knows you well: they are wildly more concerned with your wellbeing than with the twitch of awkwardness or brokenness you may or may not be showing. if it is hard to tell a good, close friend something — probably it is because it is a hard thing for you to admit to yourself. (that, or you suspect your friend will have a hard time understanding you — that they have too little context or too much baggage to interpret you correctly.) this is not true of all people: sometimes, you really are concerned about what someone will think of you. close friendship is an oddity. the oddity, one might think.

but there are some people, who in some contexts, it really is easy to show yourself to in a vulnerable light. these people — oddly-friendly acquaintances — are not people you particularly trust, nor people whom you particularly think have kind and nonjudgemental souls. rather, these are people you have a history with: whatever it is you’re afraid to show — they’ve already seen.

last spring, i worried for a moment that something i had said to a friend had come off as awkward, and then burst out laughing. this kid had experienced the (definitively) most cringe-y action of my adolescence, and then a good deal more awkwardness to boot: if i had to fear a little awkwardness in our friendship, there could have been no friendship between us at all! and the same sort of thing again, last night.

it’s a quirk of being a human being with vulnerabilities and eccentricities, that occasionally other people get window into some dear part of you. it might not be a part you would have chosen to show them — but if your relationship with them continues and develops — if that part resurfaces, there is little to fear. the quirk of you has already become a quirk of your relationship — that it can function well, with perhaps-surprising consistency, with this part of you fully incorporated without surrounding context.
