---
date: "2019-07-01"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 1: revisiting the boulder

the feeling of setting a boulder down — slowly, carefully — on a dusty road. you’re not quite sure your arms won’t give out, but you know you can’t simply keep holding this heavy, heavy rock. there is simply too much weight. (—a ghost of a feeling).

it had scared me, that i could hold so much heaviness in my heart without lightening his load at all. his burden wasn’t shared; it was doubled; and that was a whole lot of pain to go around. it took me a long time to realize it was his hurt accumulating in my muscle, making it harder and harder to move without something important inside me tearing.

there are words i could say now, about boundaries and stress and intimacy. but when i think back to that time, it is still untenable to hold as salient those ways in which i wish i had acted differently. instead, it is the confusion which clouded through my whole body that is clear — that sharp confusion. i remember how incomprehensible i was to myself. — scrounging for rocks and then wondering wildly why my body felt like it was going to give out from carrying too much weight. till i finally realized what i had been doing.

so your arms shake and you try not to crush your fingers, as the boulder goes down. maybe the first time, you don’t quite make it: maybe the first time, you lose your balance, and the rock crashes into you, and knocks the wind out of you, and you are lying there flat on your back with a boulder on your chest. but at least then, the rock is close to the ground, and it will only take one exhausting roll and some time to heal the bruises before you can be done with that heavy, heavy weight.

these days i hold stones (so smooth) in my heart when i care. i collect the rocks in a bucket for safekeeping (out of my system); and when they are no longer necessary to keep, i release them.
