---
date: "2019-01-17"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: misinterpreting religious language
---
<!-- # january 17: misinterpreting religious language -->

eight months ago, i read on an old poster for an an evangelical christian group, the motto: “learn. grown. make christ known.” i interpreted the last phrase in what i thought was a straightforward way — to act well & in ways full of love. it echoed, i though, a prayer after communion my congregation sometimes prays: “as we go from here, enable us to live so that the abundant life of jesus may be seen in us…may we do such beautiful things that people may glorify our father in heaven.” making christ known, i thought, was about manifesting goodness and love. and then yesterday, out of the blue, i realized: maybe “make christ known” was actually supposed to connote explicitly talking about christ and the gospel. that the tagline didn’t mean just “make christ known [in your actions]” but also “make christ known [to other people].” that a paraphrase of the motto as “learn. grow. proselytize.” would miss the reverence and conviction-in-truth, but might not be completely misleading.

the background assumptions i had held had stopped me — for eight months of tossing these words around in my head — from actually considering what they might mean. when else have i done this? —i have to wonder. indeed: have i been interpreting the words i myself have been praying in nonstandard ways? — was the post-communion prayer actually not so different from this new understanding of “make christ known” than i would have thought?

***

there’s a lot i’ve misinterpreted. c.s. lewis’s line — “i believe in christianity as i believe that the sun has risen, not only because i see it, but because by it i see everything else.” -- doesn’t make sense under the postmodernist impulse of incomplete and subjective lenses: seeing other things through some lens does not give reason to believe that that lens gives rise to some objective truth. but lewis wasn’t talking about that. without the sun, you can’t see anything. this thought hit yesterday, right after my re-evaluation of “make christ known,” and this one i could check with context — lewis’s essay “is theology poetry?”. and indeed: he lays out that he converted to christianity because he could make sense of science (and art, and morality…) within it, whereas in the scientific outlook he had held before, he could not make sense even of science itself.

along the same lines was a discussion about 1 peter 3:15, back my freshman spring. "but sanctify christ as lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you; yet with gentleness and reverence,” the verse reads. the first time through, the last clause struck me — "with gentleness and reverence" — and i interpreted it as gentleness towards asker, and reverence towards god. (is it not the lord whom you revere?) but in the course of discussion, it became apparent that others had interpreted it as reverence for your fellow human being. be thoughtful, speak with a light touch: make sure you speak to show, i revere you, i consider you sacred, i love you. it was more tender than i had first thought. (and i wonder, also: does this tenderness, does this reverence for a peer, close the distance between the two readings of “make christ known”?)

there’s a lot of gunk that floats around in my head — but it reinforces itself, and it makes it hard to sort through the external world in ways that properly respect it. it’s worth trying to be aware of that gunk. but this seems like a difficult task indeed.
