---
date: "2019-02-05"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# february 5: agency and autonomy in 18.901

crushing, oppressive silence: the air in the classroom was dead. we waited, inattentive, and then the professor came and mumbled through an incoherent lesson and left, and through it all the air was flat and stale and lifeless. — so this is the community within which i will be learning topology this semester.

i will learn the class material regardless: textbooks, problem sets, and thoughtfulness can teach me much. perhaps even i can try to learn the material early, and then narrate to myself the moves made in lecture. but is it not that much easier to learn well and deeply, when you are sustained by a commitment to the class itself?

a student next to me asked a question, but the professor did not understand what was being asked and brushed past it. that’s when i got restless. another student could have answered the question, or at least could have rephrased it; indeed, the answer to the question would have opened up an opportunity to discuss the motivation and foundation of these concepts being presented so dryly. but instead, there we were — silent, in our own heads, the girl next to me still confused.

and so i am wondering, what can i do inspire energy in the atmosphere of this class? — are there questions i can ask that will invite better pedagogy? can we norm the space to encourage student participation and engagement? can we write on the board, can we use colored chalk?— i understand, this class size of 40 is likely too large to have a proper coup: and so i found myself thinking, okay, what if a group of students hosted alternative lectures? or, what if i studied the content before lecture, and then drew examples and outlines on the sideboard before class?

i felt my own agency so saliently, sitting there, but i was also aware that, as student, i was expected to relinquish my agency to the lecture. and of course my priority is allowing my peers to learn undisturbed, and of course i do not want to be annoying. but i am unwilling to relinquish agency. i will try, then, to find some positive outlet, some invitation of life to the classroom, just to the degree that intervention is needed.
