---
date: "2019-08-08"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## august 8: how to hold pain

i want to change how i go about validating other people’s pain.

i try to take other people’s hurt seriously. to sit with it. to say, the situation you are trying to navigate is a difficult one. the hope is to summarize what they are speaking about as struggle and then to affirm it as such.

people often push away from this recognition, fast. they assure, but i can handle it. say, really it’s fine. perhaps bring up, this is nothing they haven’t gone through before. statements like this lighten the atmosphere; make it a little more casual; take the edge off. it’s a conversational maneuver.

recently, i’ve been responding to this attempt at lightening by maintaining the seriousness. yes, you can handle it: but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t hurt. problems don’t have to be unbearable to be problems; pain doesn’t have to be unbearable to be pain. — that is, i try to block the maneuver.

oftentimes, this response seems to work. the other person has a moment of being heard, and then of self-validation. sometimes the depth is maintained a little longer. usually the conversation moves up to a more casual register, in what i experience as a smoother and more genuine way.

i’d like, though, to create space in which that conversational distancing doesn’t feel necessary to the other person. in which there’s no impulse to paper over the hurt. in which we can stay in that space of vulnerability for just a moment longer; in holding and being held. (exceptions to this of course include times when the other person determines i am not a safe or helpful person to be confiding in; if i have genuinely misunderstood in a way creating discomfort; and times when the other person honestly does need a breath of air, for a bit, to take the emotion down a notch.) but i’m not quite sure how to create that space quickly enough. do i recognize their strength or poise, as it exists? do i affirm my faith that they are and will continue to work through this? do i need to moderate further the way i am presenting myself and the language i am using? am i affirming too early?

i don’t know, but i’m working on it.
