---
date: "2019-01-03"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: ideals are within grasp
---
<!-- # january 3: ideals are within grasp -->

i have been speaking of an ideal as a specification of a way of being. we can take this ‘way of being’ to be a total state of affairs (e.g. utopia as ideal) or as something a little more abstract, like a quality (e.g. egalitarianism as ideal, or kindness as ideal). i have mentioned being wary of working towards the ideals that are total states, because it is unclear if being not-all-the-way-there is worse than some state of being pretty-far-from-there. one might also think (as e.g. elizabeth anderson does) that there *is* no ideal for something (e.g. society). of course, what even is the value being referenced in ‘worse’ and ‘better’? i haven’t thought nearly enough about politics or political philosophy for this, but perhaps it is conceivable that the value on states just are some agglomeration of the values on the different degrees of their instantiations of more abstract ideals.

these more abstract things, then, might not be so far from us. we do act with kindness, after all. some people are virtue theorists. there have been saints. of course, maybe no one has ever acted from duty, in a kantian sense — maybe it is so very hard for us to do truly be in accordance with some ideal. (would this be original sin?)

i was worried, my freshman fall, that aristotle’s notion of the contemplative life as the good life instructed us to strive for an ideal which we are not suited to reach, are not suited to exemplify. i thought, the life of a human is not the life of a god — we have to embrace our human limits in our conception of what we ought to do. (is this ought-implies-can? a question.) but perhaps we need not see the life of contemplation as an ideal state-of-affairs, using up all of our energy — perhaps contemplation (or our reason?) is one of these more abstract ideals, not so far from grasp.
