---
date: "2019-08-12"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## august 12: maintining integrity in speech

my first standard for myself that weekend was, that i would not act any more enthusiastic than i actually felt. i kept to this norm; and i was glad i did. it was important.

in some spaces, it feels like there are expectations of emotions. this is supposed to be a heartfelt goodbye; this is supposed to be funny; this is supposed to feel like unity. — and sometimes you just aren’t feeling it. something off under the surface. and sometimes there aren’t such clear expectations, but there are common narratives; and how much easier it would be, if you could just fit your feelings and experience into that framework, or those common phrasings.

too often, without quite thinking, i let sentiment i do not feel permeate my speech. it comes in from the space; or it comes in as my reaction against a space; or it’s just the speech of least resistance. use excessive enthusiasm as overcompensation within my own discomfort. echo the angst you hear too often from seniors facing life after graduation with uncertainty. — say words i don’t mean in a tone i don’t feel. even if it isn’t inaccurate — it doesn’t sit right, within me.

i’ve been trying to stop doing this, for a while. i would rather be quiet than yield to this surreptitious impulse to misrepresent. — in casual contexts as well as intense ones, i want to keep integrity in my speech. i have to be careful with this; too perfectionistic, and i’d never be able to say a full sentence again. surely, though, there’s a middle ground.

this project has been going okay, i think. but it’s hard to do. mostly i slip in the moments i am most tired or disengaged or uncomfortable; and those are hard times to get a hold on. the issue here isn’t actually linguistic.

but i’m starting to realize, i know what kind of orientation i might have in the world, that i could retain integrity in even those trying moments. this is already part of larger arcs about sacredness and preciousness. i know what it feels like to hold myself in the world that way. — what i need is to figure out how to make that posture a deeper and more constant habit.
