---
date: "2019-01-13"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: ethics -> original sin -> religion
---
<!-- # january 13: ethics -> original sin -> religion -->

[clarification for what is ahead: god, religion, and salvation need not involve anything supernatural.]

some people think that ethics functions as a decision theory, and that as such the demands of ethics should be followable. the hope is that ethics always has helpful advice — that there is always some way to act ethically. i worry that the requires ethics to dissolve tragedies too far: maybe there are cases in which every option available to you is impermissible. how can you face a sophie’s choice?

even without conceiving of ethics as a decision theory, we often hold the principle that “ought implies can” — an agent can only have obligations to perform actions which are possible for her to perform. is this principle something we must have blind faith in — that obligations really do work out in this way? or does it require us to hold a particular view on performing action, or on possibility? or do we merely take this principle as pre-emptive forgiveness, a mere restriction of regular ethics?

i find religion compelling because i do think there are structural defects in human life that lead us (among other things) to tragic situations, and because i do wonder if there is some structural defect in us that we must overcome (e.g. as saints do) in order to live up to the demands of ethics. that is, we live in a world of nonideal theory and original sin.

a pastor once suggested to me that there is a god-shaped hole in our heart, and when that spiritual need goes unfulfilled, we hurt ourselves by trying to force behaviors or ideas of the wrong shape into that hole. i wonder if one way of understanding this sentiment is to see the proposed hole as the question of how to face these structural defects. if we are not redeemed (e.g. in god), we can leave that hole gaping (manifesting e.g. as nihilism or as intense and paralyzing pain), or we can try to fill it with something which lacks salvic power— thereby insisting that there are no structural defects at all (and embracing e.g. hedonism or ordinary virtue theory). but neither of those options allow us to actually face these defects: we need the transformation of salvation in order to really live in this world.

(three cheers for mark johnston’s “saving god” — one of the most thought-provoking & helpful books i’ve read recently — would recommend to anyone who thinks about god or religion, particularly in a monotheistic context)
