---
date: "2019-01-09"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: interpreting advice (the TKN principle)
---

<!-- # january 9: interpreting advice (the TKN principle) -->

when i was in middle school, our principal suggested that we all speak only when we considered our sentiment to be true, kind, and necessary. laughter filled the hallway after the assembly let out, and i chuckled along: i agreed this TKN principle was asking too much of our casual speech. as an eighth grader, i decided to loosen the principle up a bit — instead of needing all three conditions, i figured, any two of the three ought to be sufficient. true, kind, but unnecessary; true, necessary, but not actively kind; kind, necessary, but not exactly true — surely these were all permissible!

perhaps unsurprisingly, my understanding of these concepts has shifted since those eighth grade days. my notions of truth in speech are relativized to normed standards of precision in a conversation. i see a sharp distinction between the kind and the nice, wherein niceness involves saying things pleasant to hear, but that can easily open into falsity and perverseness, but wherein kindness is motivated by real concern for the other and the interests of the other, and as such has a deep conceptual grounding in truth. furthermore, necessity now hangs with a moral air for me. there are other ways we talk about necessity, e.g. the means necessary to achieve certain ends — but should i not be so suspicious of ends which require one to speak in ways unkind or untrue? lastly, i am becoming increasingly wary of my own excess in speech. i’m not quite ready to say that all speech must be necessary speech — but i wonder if there is a way of conceiving of necessity (e.g. under imperfect duties) which does allow for an intuitive rendering of the full true, kind, necessary principle.

it is so easy to hear suggestions or advice and to re-interpret them to better fit your own view of the world. and after all — these suggestions are often given in such a casual way that you do not realize you need a paradigm shift in order to understand the suggestion as given. “it feels like she was conflating trust and emotional intimacy,” i wrote last january, and proceeded to consider the advice given with a substitution of “trust” for “emotional intimacy” — but when i look back, i see i was mistaken. she meant what she said; i simply didn’t have the cognitive framework in place to understand why it was emotional intimacy (rather than trust) she thought was really relevant.

this mistake is understandable, forgivable: there is often not enough substance given to facilitate the paradigm-shifting process. this is, perhaps, why explanation of advice can be so helpful — not just because it provides reasons for the advice, but because it helps explain what the advice is at all. i wonder if it, then, is helpful to conceive of advice not only as the typical propositions given, but also in terms of the frameworks those propositions rely on. the act of advice-giving, then, might be conceived as an act of opening up a new perspective to someone.
