---
date: "2019-04-09"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# april 9: kafka

i used to encounter references to kafka constantly. there were probably two a month — a friend mentioning reading a kafka story for her german class; a picture of the statue of the head of kafka in prague on a slide in an art class; the xkcd comic on adjectives that includes “kafkaesque” surfacing when i clicked the random button; a discussion of the metamorphosis in an interview with garcía márquez, and in a philosophy article, and “gregor” as the title of a friend’s painting; and, and, and…
this went on for probably 15 months. i had never read kafka. (although, twice a kafka collection was a featured book at a bookstore — and we did read “before the law” at the start of the constitutional law class i took, near the end). but again and again, there he was. i would mention it to people, that kafka was appearing everywhere, and they would laugh hesitantly and then mutter something about the baader-meinhof effect. but it never felt satisfying. sure, kafka isn’t obscure; and certainly, now that i was paying attention, i was noticing all the places kafka popped up; but the frequency was just /so high/, and the references were coming from such an eclectic group of sources. i didn’t think there was an explanation; i wanted to get to hold this kafka-haunting as a series of coincidences, strange and unexplainable.

and then it stopped. the frequency of kafka references plummeted. these days, i encounter references to kafka what i have to imagine is a usual amount, for someone in my circles — maybe once or twice a semester, with long stretches of no kafka references at all.

 i feel vindicated: kafka really must have been showing up unusually often, for those months i felt haunted by him. it wasn’t just cognitive bias.

it is hard to overlay this timeline of kafka-encounters with the rest of my life. sparse memories and reason get me to a vague placement of these many months; and i felt it so strongly at the time; and yet, there was nothing anchoring kafka to the rest of my life. it was tied up in itself only, floating at the surface of my conscious experience. it was strange: it was a time to itself, but did not characterize the time underneath it.
