---
date: "2019-08-18"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# august 18: handling one's own sin

what is in the culture as instruction for handling one’s own sin?

i sin. i make mistakes. i miss the mark. so do you, probably. this is an important fact; a weighty fact: that we, here, sin. it’s a messy world, and we are messy within it. and sometimes we miss the mark. we hurt other people, whether we mean to or not. we hurt ourselves. — it’s important to recognize.

there are things we do which we are not proud of. often, those behaviors are explicable. a product of circumstance, or a remnant from past harshnesses. usually when i am mean, i have been feeling unsafe. but just because the behavior is explicable, doesn’t mean it isn’t sin; doesn’t mean it doesn’t sit uneasily within us. horrible, she said; she feels horrible, when she is stony and cold and passive-aggressive with her partner. she is working to unlearn that behavior. but here it is; and the unkindness tears her up inside. sin matters.

it is painful to contemplate your own sin. it is tempting to make excuses; to justify your behavior, or, often, just to dismiss it. because it hurts, to sit with sin; to feel shame or guilt; sometimes, to think of the pain you have caused your loved ones; and to feel embarrassment, perhaps, on top. you can’t pretend do be your aspirational self, when you are holding your own sins in the palm of your hand. no: you see yourself raw and improper.

how do you orient around your own sin? how do you atone for it; and how do you have compassion for yourself, within your sinfulness?

sometimes these questions are straightforward, and sometimes they are not. apologies can do wonders; yet sometimes it would be inappropriate to apologize to another person. and you are left muddling through repentance.

this is where i turn to god and christian theology and the thoughtful words of pastors. — we talk about sin, in the church. and we talk about love. there are other routes that can be taken. but i wonder how important it is, that we talk about sin.

because it is possible to grapple with sin well; to become well-oriented; holding that sin fierce, yet, perhaps, now moving forward; in love. (i admire people in that state so much.) — but it’s hard to get there.
