---
date: "2019-01-11"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: brief descriptions hurt
---
<!-- # january 11: brief descriptions hurt -->

a brief description of person can be a blunt instrument. one you speaks of a coworker or friend to another person and introduces them as “a bit of an idiot” or “bizarrely surly” or “um, slightly underwhelming” or “an anxious wreck” -- something jarring happens. one is substituting one’s judgement of the person for a mode of presenting of the person herself. there is a person whom you are describing: but your description is not doing her justice — is ignoring the very fact of her personhood — and is forcing her down into this coarse framework of judgement.

it is not surprising we do this in communication. when you tell a story which involves someone, you do not need the listener to recognize the character in the story as fully, deeply human — you need them to understand that you have been frequently annoyed at the person’s behavior, and that you think your annoyance has been fitting to the situation, and so you say they are persistently annoying. and it works: the listener thinks of this person as a pest, and often does not consider the whole rest of them, their whole humanity.

brief descriptors ascribe your (subjective?) experience to an object, a person. it asserts your judgements are true.

importantly here, i do not merely mean to say that the brief description does not account for the whole complexity of the person. usually it indeed does not; but this is a symptom, not the problem. complexity itself is not a virtue. if some people really are simple— so that describing those people briefly may be accurate (“he’s — really into math.” “she’s — really christian” “i swear, he looks out at the world and only sees potentialities to optimize.”) — you can speak with reverence for their person, or you can speak with judgement that contains them in a little box.

sometimes i put judgements on other people to convey my own displeasure. i should stop. even if that displeasure is valid, or the sentiment expressing it is reasonable — why bother? we can always speak instead of dear people, and some of the ways they happen to appear, and of our own degrees of trouble in interacting with them kindly.
