---
date: "2019-01-24"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: change of a person (prior to relationship)
---
<!-- # january 24: change of a person (prior to relationship) -->

much of the time, relationships are collaborative. as you interact with someone, you build up a friendship; the energy you put into the relationship develops the relationship. with shared vocabulary, shared experience, the connection can grow and change and deepen: it evolves itself. and sometimes the relationship can tug at one or the other of you, and you can feel yourself transformed by this relationship you have developed.

but sometimes, you receive the other person as given — directly. suddenly you are seeing them in a way not modulated by your relationship. instead, something about them (— a transformation; a characteristic before unnoticed —) cuts through the connection you had developed.

her words go straight to your heart and free you. his face looks different, and you wonder how many other modes of understanding his presence you are missing. you see, suddenly, how much he has changed. the idea of this person you had been holding in your head does not align with the person they are: you see clearly your own misunderstanding.

moments like these are jarring. you are struck by this person before you — you see them in a bright and blinding light. it is close — you are so close to them it is painful — but it is not intimate: you are struck by how distant you are from them, what gap exists between your conception of them and who they are.

and then you come back, and here you are in this relationship again, but now it feels (persistently, subtly) different. some other experience has changed the tone of the relationship, and now there has been a discontinuity, a catching-up, a renewal. it is new again.

and so we try build from there, and we hope the relationship is robust under realization.
