---
date: "2019-04-23"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## april 23: i miss starlight

i miss starlight.

when the nights are clear and dark, you look up, and you can see the vastness. there’s a whole universe out there. and from here, you can see the stars speckling the sky; and from here, you can see the beauty of it all. whatever you have learned about space, all this space, becomes lived: it’s not intellectual, it’s visceral, and you are filled with awe.

and i think it must ground you, to see the stars. the questions that tremble in your heart, the questions that are big and existential and sweeping — they do not go away, but are made accessible. because here you are on your back, and you can feel the cool ground beneath you, supporting you, and yet you are so aware of everything that is outside of you, and all that starlight is seeping into you, and the questions themselves are seeping into you.

i miss the starlight because i know there is something i have lost sight of.

one too many philosophy classes, and now physics makes me itch. i feel troubled by regularities, by natural laws and causation and matter: there are conclusions about these things that i do not know how to orient around. and so when i think of the stars, there’s the prickling uneasiness of technical questions that sits underneath my skin, and it makes me doubt even the sublime. the technical investigations can cloud up something important; and in this city, where the sky is grey and glowing all through the night — it can be hard to marvel at the vast.

and so i go to church, and i read poetry, and i try as i can to wonder at the mundane. but there’s still a line between thinking and feeling. and so, i miss the starlight.
