---
date: "2019-08-16"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# august 16: strong friendship

finally again it feels like a difference in degree, rather than a difference in kind; and i feel close to her; my heart swells.

she and i have been nudging and tugging each other along for a long time. friends from early childhood — we’ve watched each other grow up. we did not grow up together; not quite. — didn’t keep pace together; kept reaching different stages at different times. there would be a gap. will you be foreign to me, the next time i see you? — a question that hung in each of our hearts; and sometimes the answer was yes. yet there we were. we weren’t growing apart; we were growing at different speeds, in difference contexts. and so ours was a friendship grappling with asynchronicity.

we’ve been grappling with asynchronicity for the better part of a decade. often it has not been easy. i know there are fears she has had, and i know there are fears i have had. yet she’s had such grace and patience with me. we’ve borne with each other. talking rarely; but often genuinely; and sometimes awkwardly; yet continuing to talk. i am so grateful to her, that she has borne with me.

those days we connect, i find and i feel more whole having found, a side of myself precious in sync. — not dragging itself along ahead, nor insisting it has been so dragged; but simply present. we talk about friendship and boundaries and family and emotions and god. not everything fits; some things i have told her about only vaguely. but much of me does. and it’s a framing that fills me with relief as i listen to her; as, sometimes, i can be helpful to her, and, sometimes, her, to me. i care about her so much.

some friendship is formative; and some friendship is stubborn; and some friendships you look at, and you know they are in a class to themselves.
