---
date: "2019-07-11"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 11: this procesing, feeling, thinking

narrative is unwieldy. there is such richness to interaction and relationship: and while i tell myself stories about what has happened, these making-sense-of’s can in no way be complete. there’s selection and there’s emphasis and there’s bringing-to-light. when i can, i draw out different threads to pass through different aspects of different blocks of experience; so that my memories are a tangle of red and green and blue thread. sometimes i come to different conclusions when i follow these different threads. — and where does that leave me?

i felt anger today. blazing, sustained anger — something i had not experienced before. (there’s a boundary i need to protect or restore). and i let myself rage; i let myself feel it.  i did not know if that anger was directed or righteous or justified: it wasn’t yet the time to ask those questions. i was just angry, and i knew i was not ready to stop being angry. — hurt and frustrated words spilling quietly out of me into the emptiness as i sat alone on my bed.

there are so many narratives i see weaving through and hinged within these sets of experiences. reason or hysteria; irresponsibility or friendship; emptiness or sweetness; data or deliberateness; history or constitution; care or courtesy; expectation or miscommunication; —. and maybe it’s in the middle and maybe it’s both and maybe it’s neither and maybe it’s even further to an extreme than i can imagine. i don’t know, yet; and i don’t know yet what there is to know. — and still, within all that messiness, i felt angry.

there’s a question, a subtle question, which is starting to take shape within me. i don’t know what i think of it philosophically, yet; i don’t know where the normative begins and ends. but i hold the memory of that anger, and something soft and organic and powerful begins to take shape inside of me, pressed up against the question. there is an understanding of the tender and the excellent which is not philosophical; and i can feel the charge of it, buzzing within me.
