---
date: "2019-04-17"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# april 17: christian music for lent

for the last six weeks, i have not played unchristian music. a spotify playlist of choral music, hymns, christian indie rock, and gregorian chants — this is what i have been listening to. in sadness and in joy; while working on a problem set or in contemplation; when feeling intensely, or not feeling much at all: the auditory art i have been consuming has been particular, holy.

it was difficult, at first. i didn’t have a foundational library of christian music; it took time to build one up. but once i got going, it was okay, lovely. i noticed as the songs which bounced around in my head shifted into that elevated sound. as these weeks have passed, sorrow and holiness have appealed to me more and more. my impulse is now to regulate emotions with “miserere mei, deus” rather than vaguely-panentheistic almost-pop. i am glad of this. there is something grounding in having such intimate connection with choral music.

the first weeks, i latched onto the snatches of music i heard in a friend’s room, or in the grocery store, or in the aground of a podcast; and it was sweet — like a pineapple right on the verge of being too ripe. but the sweetness faded. there is a lot of extraneous sound in the world: and i do not need it. the songs i need, i make up on the spot and hum to myself.

this experiment soon will end. i am ready — thoughtfully ready —  to listen to why?’s album moh lhean and joanna newsom’s album divers again. these are not the albums i thought i would miss; but my heart is pulled to them. there are other songs i will be happy to hear, too. i’m looking forward to listening to the new singles from the mountain goats and fred desk, and to the songs with the sort of roughness that sparks one to understanding and elevation.

yet, when i look through the list of songs i usually listen to: little jumps out at me. the songs i thought i would miss, i no longer miss. the ways of orienting within the world i associated with these other artists, i have either taken up into myself, or have released. the only other music i feel strongly about hearing again, is that music i have always found beautiful.

there’s a letting-go. i feel prepared to find myself in holy week.
