---
date: "2019-07-24"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## july 24: pre-articulation friction

my capacity to express is lagging behind my capacity to feel. i haven’t quite figured out how to orient myself around these new happenings and the changes within me; and so i haven’t quite figured out how to articulate what i have experienced and what i have come to believe, either. i find my own speech grating and mis-directed.

i felt this way last summer, too. i had been self-describing as an “atheist” in order to make people more comfortable when i talked about reverence and my deepening ties to christianity and the church; but that language was misleading and disingenuous, and it made me feel sick to use. the question wasn’t whether or not it was accurate: the problem was that it got the tone wrong, all wrong. i didn’t know quite what i thought of myself as a religious person, and i certainly didn’t know how to present myself as a religious person, and so i made myself uncomfortable again and again in speech. change precedes re-orientation precedes proper articulation; and the interim is rough.

so i’m here, and i can’t quite strike the tone right. when i try to talk about what happened, i just mutter “lmao” under my breath seven times or else punctuate every other word with an exclamation point. but that’s not how i feel. i haven’t felt that way in weeks. everything is quieter inside of me.

i don’t like being in this state. when i can’t talk about grieving without sounding melodramatic; when i can’t hold on to seriousness for more than a minute or two before it dissipates into that refrain of, i don’t know, i don’t know anything. —a refrain i simply do not mean. it’s all exhausting, and it all feels cheap.

there’s vulnerability in this state. my speech is raw, but that rawness is discordant; i am not that raw inside. — yet still there is a rawness inside of me.
