---
date: "2019-01-12"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: surprising ourselves
---
<!-- # january 12: surprising ourselves -->

sometimes we react to situations in ways that surprise us.

a discussion you had expected to hold confidently quiets you — the words are more difficult to speak than you had imagined. or— a conversation proceeds exactly as you had expected, and yet the responses you receive startle you. situation when suddenly— the reality of it all hits.

if you had tried in earnest to imagine yourself in this position, would you have been able to anticipate the feeling of it sinking in? would you have been able to model the actuality of it all? — i wonder.

visualization as a technique is a kind of diy reality. it is powerful — it allows one to change one’s notions of what is possible — to change one’s notions of oneself. one constructs images and pairs them with emotions, trying to experience them as real, so that one’s brain will treat them as real, so that one’s brain will see this ideal as achievable. but of course: this visualization is training. it changes one’s behavior. we do not use it to predict. how could we? narrative building changes the system it tries to narrate.

there is something tremendous about the idea that we can legitimately surprise ourselves. it is an affirmation that there is something bright and sparkling in us — that we exist over and above the models we hold of ourselves. that we can have these moments of raw feeling that source from something beyond our grasp! that there is something within ourselves and within the world at which to marvel!
