---
date: "2019-01-27"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: types and tokens for linndale, ohio
---
<!-- # january 27: types and tokens for linndale, ohio -->

kripke says that names are rigid designators: they refer to the same thing in all possible worlds in which the thing exists. there are other rigid designators in language, too — for example, if you believe kaplan, first person pronouns like “i” are also rigid designators. but most of our language is descriptive — “the 45th president of the united states of america” would refer to hillary clinton if she had won the presidential election instead of donald trump. much philosophy concerned with the formal character of language, then, is concerned with truth conditions and uses possible-worlds semantics. i used to be skeptical of this concern with possible-worlds semantics. i was not convinced that it actually respects what we mean when we use language. but i am coming to appreciate it.

like — i was listening to the episode “expect delays” of this american life today. in the first act, sean cole details the story of a speedtrap town, linndale, ohio. (you should listen to the whole act — there is little i have heard recently that has made me laugh so hard as that story.) in it, there’s a whole series of, um, very specific laws passed by the ohio state legislature that were definitely not targeting linndale, no siree. one of these laws, drafted by tom patton, was going to apply to towns with less than 150 residents, but then a new census said that the population of linndale was 179, rather than 117, and so dear tom patton just replaced the ‘150’ with a ‘200’ — again, definitely not targeting linndale, no way.

one thing i find funny about all of this is that there really is a sense in which tom patton isn’t targeting linndale. he has nothing against that particular town: rather, he has something against tiny towns that make an absurd amount of money off of speeding tickets on a tiny stretch of highway that isn’t even accessible to the town itself, and it just so happens that there are no other towns like this in ohio. —if there were another town in this same situation profiting from it, patton would dislike that town, also! he is not targeting the token that is linndale (which is rigid across possible worlds), but rather a type (which is descriptive, and changes over different possible worlds). if linndale wasn’t making so much money from these traffic tickets, he wouldn’t be legislating against linndale; he’s just targeting towns that are like linndale in all relevant ways (size, relation to the highway, etc.). indeed, he speaks “from a public policy perspective” — and indeed, the descriptions he gives which constitute his reasons for the legislation he drafts are ostensibly in the domain of public policy.

and the changing of the threshold for population to 200 from 150, after learning that linndale was over the 150 limit? we can attribute that to vagueness of numerical limits and patton’s sense that linndale really was the /kind/ of town he was considering. (a little ridiculous, to be sure.)

i am left with questions on how we use the word “target”: after all, it would be a little silly if we could only target rigidly designated entities, because that would mean we could never target anything for any real reason — because reasons do not create rigidity, but rather truth condition that change as they range over possible worlds.
