---
date: "2019-04-18"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# april 18: soft spot for absurdity

we wrangle these parts of ourselves, not because they are bad, but because they are complicated. it is hard to be a person in this world: every faculty inside me is challenging and delightful at the same time. i cannot separate out what i like from what i dislike: there are just all of these parts constitutive of my experience, and they are dear, and they are frustrating.

when i was fifteen, i identified a “soft spot for absurdity” within myself. i thought it was innocent, just another delighting part of my sensibility. but of course that’s not the whole story. everything has a shadow. my sense of absurdity is so visceral, and so intense; but it is not often shared, and it is nearly impossible to explain. and so we learn to navigate — to wrestle our responses down into something situationally appropriate. it is important work, and i am glad to be able to do it: it matters, to participate in and contribute to shared space, open space, explicable space.

(it is sometimes disturbing and sometimes embarrassing to misjudge in this domain. i once left a boy dumbfounded: my explanation explained nothing to him, and in his insecurity, he felt not just confused, but paranoid. i felt terrible, to worry him in this way. but even in the better times, it is unpleasant — a quirk of strangeness in you is revealed more clearly than you perhaps desired. it is important to tread carefully, within this.)

yet — it is important to tread thoughtfully in everything. a friend says, there is no part of herself she is beholden to: any faculty too troublesome, she will excise. i do not have such surgeon’s control over my own constitution: but even if i did, what parts of me would i choose to cut out? it would be more convenient to navigate this world with a more moderate sense of the absurd. but honestly? it would be more convenient to navigate this world without most of the things i notice in myself. convenience cannot possibly be the criterion. i do not think i could have a criterion.

and so i take these parts of myself in stride, not because they are sacred, but because they are not; and i learn to cope with them, to use them, to hold them close.
