---
date: "2019-06-28"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## june 28: city dance party

step into anonymity. city streets croweded; you can lose yourself, if you let yourself; and i decided to let it. my sneakers were on and i was ready to dance.

a hollowing yourself out. but you aren’t left hollow, you are left in your own body. like when you clean up the caches on your laptop, deleting all this accumulated data, but it doesn’t feel like you have gotten rid of anything of volume at all. all your organs are inside you; all your bones, all your muscle; all your nerves and blood. but there’s just a little more space. imperceptible gaps emptied.
a patch of people to dance within. the most salient aspect of overwhelming situations these days is emotional (rather than simply sensory) stimulation. still couldn’t chance a political rally, but the city dance party was okay: noise & scent & sweat, but at least there was nothing to think about or to feel. stay alone and you’re golden.

it doesn’t have to be long. till finally something within you says, time to leave. so you leave. you wander down these streets & their brick sidewalks & it’s so quiet but for the four sirens sounding, and a woman who has gotten out of her car telling off a man who had been doing a wheelie in the road. (you had heard the sound of breaking glass —). that’s incredibly unsafe, she said. you were swerving all over the place, she said. grow up and get on the sidewalk, she said. you keep walking. people have been smoking and you can smell it. you keep walking.

there’s a breaking-open. it’s so familiar, at this point. the moment of crash; of, here i am again. and suddenly it’s time to hurry home, through the merciful-empty light of the streetlamps above.
