---
date: "2019-01-19"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: they say a storm is brewing
---
<!-- # january 19: they say a storm is brewing -->

they say a storm is brewing. perhaps the weathermen are right. but i am looking out the window at the snow falling (surely, softly) and i feel no itch to contemplate the future.

i have never been here before. a space between two rooms — empty. purposeless. something forgotten has made its home here. the view is soft.

you are crying next to me. i would have left after a minute’s look through the window, an attempt to escape myself again—but you were entranced. we stayed. i am so grateful to you.

to have worked through pain. to have cried; to have shaken. to be scared of oneself. (just because it feels necessary doesn’t mean it feels good.) and finally i’ve stopped and i’ve felt myself land but i’m still off-balance. it still hurts.

there’s nothing numbing at the windowsill. you are crying next to me, not sad but full of tears, overwhelmed. but i am not crying. i feel myself exhale. my back presses into the wall, so solid, so safe even as i feel its cold through my jacket. i can see a sign for a railroad crossing through the window. i can see the streetlights shine through the dark below. i feel myself relax.

sometimes, one needs time to be quiet. time just to be. without distraction, without reflection. just presence. relieving, relaxing presence.

i do not know if i have seen a storm, but i have watched snow falling.
