---
date: "2019-09-03"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# september 3: direct & reverent -- confrontation

i am learning how to confront people well.

perhaps the best compliment i have ever received, is that i was nice while also not letting other people trample me. i have retuned to these words often, in the two years that have passed.

sometimes, it’s because i feel like i lost sight of others — that i was callous or misguided or just taken aback. sometimes it’s because i feel like i lost sight of myself — that i did let myself get walked all over. yet here i am; i’m still trying — hard — to be kind; to others and to myself.

again and again i find myself in these paradigms of duals. i want to hold this world as precious; to see the sacred and to recognize it. to be quiet when it is time to be quiet. to pray. the good and the important and the holy matter; and i hope to live so that they matter to me; so that i recognize what is bigger than me and beyond me; with reverence. — and yet also here i am, being direct. laying claim to my own agency, fiercely. working to find, and finding, confidence and self-assurance. sometimes, i can be a little brazen.

i don’t think these two aspects of how i hope to hold myself in the world (forward, yet towards the sacred) are contradictory; in fact, i do think there is synergy between them; and it’s all tied up in kindness. and while it’s hard to talk about them together — i think it’s important. i don’t think i can be honest, in a deep way, without holding both together.
