---
date: "2019-05-27"
title: "a sticky something in my heart"
tags:
  - snippets
  - aLover
---
there’s a sticky something in my heart, and i wonder how he is.

some connections come to a rest. times of positive intensity; times of negative intensity; and finally a settling-out. a settling-out into nothingness. closure received; and the connection fades, everything fades. there’s spacial distance, and there’s temporal distance, and there you are, far away. having grown apart, now we grow, apart. it was a phase ended: and i promise that it is ended, i promise myself that it is ended.

but here these thoughts are, surfacing. i wonder how he is, and i wonder how his life is going. if he’s still just treading water, or if he finally caught up to these systems. systems of work and society and play that plug on and on, twisting and turning, inexorable; systems that can leave one baffled and hurt and hurting if one is out of sync with them. he was out of sync with them, before. — i wonder what life he has built for himself, and i wonder how he spends his time.

there’s a sticky something in my heart. all this wondering like gum stuck on the underside of a high school desk. — shameful and nasty but old enough at least that it no longer has a discernible scent; foreign to you yet crusted on, like it is part of you, now, although it is not. i never understood why people stick gum under desks. i guess, i don’t really understand myself, either.

months and months and months have passed, and it isn’t so much that i miss him, as that i miss knowing some piece of what was going on with him, so that i could care for him, and keep him in my heart. but that time has passed.
