---
date: "2019-08-14"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## august 14: turn-over in my heart (blue disk)

the feeling of wide loss is different from the feeling of concentrated loss. it’s not the sharp point of a single complete absence; it’s not so acute. there was a blue circle, a mid-sized blue circle that hung in my heart, a circle which held a core; but that blue circle now is the vision of a void. empty in the places it used to be reassuringly full.

but that’s how it goes, you know. i am not identical with the blue disk. it was one kind of organization, one kind of understanding, one kind of love; and though it was one kind of core, it is not the core of me. it is historical and precious: it has formed so much of me: but it is not me.

the blue disk will still be there, in my heart; and i will envelop that blue disk the way trees sometimes envelop old signs. i will grow over it, and i will keep in my trunk.

yes, sometimes relationships end. sometimes, within the mourning, within the recognition of what was good and what will be missed, it is good that the relationship ends. the cells on the disk matter, and the disk matters, even as i begin to see them as historical; and they will continue to matter. it doesn’t have to be permanent to have value. it doesn’t have to be permanent to be real.

there are transitions present and transitions soon upcoming; and my feelings and attentions are cycling. the acute absences on the blue disk; the emptiness of the disk itself; and the wholeness of myself, the re-organization that had already occurred within me. i feel solid, and sometimes i feel sad.

if to everything there is a season, then sometimes you will find yourself at a change-of-season; and so there is a season for transitions, also.
