---
date: "2019-07-14"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# july 14: apprehension from my summer self

re-opening: how is this gonna go?

the feeling of actively trying not to anticipate something; oops. we’re gonna talk, and i have not a clue what we’re gonna talk about. i’m not worried, but i am wondering. — i have changed in the last month and a half. have you?

i’ve been listening to happy synth-pop and swimming backstroke. the trim in my room is light blue, and i’ve been making collages. summer has been warm, breezy nights and supporting a friend through a breakup and several bags of cherries at $2.99/lb; and if it’s also been days of not-quite-knowing-what-i’m-doing, so it goes. theory has taken a backseat to experience for a minute; my standards are rising; and i’ve been happy.

but if lightness and embodiment are exactly what i’ve been going for — lightness and embodiment always just seemed a little foreign to him. i don’t know if he’s looking to rebuild: but damn, even previous summers strained our conversations — how would it possibly work to try to rebuild in july?

there’s something in this sentiment that’s a little ridiculous. we’ll meet up, and we’ll see how it goes; we’ll see how he’s feeling, and how i am. maybe the changes we decided were needed will have happened, and maybe not; and maybe it will be clear that these requisite changes weren’t possible to start with. i don’t feel invested in any particular outcome. but i don’t have endless patience, any more. — i am getting clearer and clearer on what i need and want, and i will be acting accordingly.
