---
date: "2019-01-04"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: bad situations & forgiveness
---
<!-- # january 4: bad situations & forgiveness -->

sometimes, situations just are bad. it is no one’s fault, or maybe it is everyone’s fault, but it does not matter: ascription of blame is simply not a helpful or legitimate way to work through the situation. some negative emotions seem easier to pair with such situations than others: sadness does not demand a valid object for blame in quite the way anger seems to, for example. but i wonder if it is possible or necessary to feel emotions like anger (and perhaps even anger at a particular person or group or system) without thereby blaming any person or group or system.

for example, to a friend after a miscommunication: you hurt me, but you did not mean to. i am angry at you, but i do not blame you. i am not able yet to treat you as the friend you are, but i will come around to it — the change that has to happen is a change inside of me, and not a change inside of you — you have done your part.

is this internal change referenced by the speaker not forgiveness, even though there is no attribution of blame? i think it is, and moreover, i think forgiveness even in cases of blame attribution still faces only the hurt, and not also the blame.

in a proper apology, someone takes on responsibility for hurt as it is appropriate to them. there is a gap still between the apology and its acceptance, wherein the blame has been properly attributed, but the act still stings. forgiveness is what bridges over the gap: forgiveness is reconciliation over harm felt, and not harm perpetrated.
