---
date: "2019-06-07"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## june 7: value theory (he doesn't love me)

sharing: you & me; a topic in common; a holding-together. two hearts kindled: distinct. — but a fire the same between us; a fire which manifests differently (—a scale from privacy through empathy); a fire which burns and sparks further inside of you; inside of the two of us. these feelings matter because i matter (because i matter to you). there’s a crux of the feeling, and we share it, and it spills out into us.

oh: but do he & i share? — never a crux in common. go ahead, make your utterance. if everyone else says, i am proud of you, he will say, congratulations. it will sound strange even to him (a bitter taste on one’s tongue; wavering and subtle and sourceless) — but he will not know why. it is all he possibly could say. if there’s a kernel of something important inside of you: he will recognize it is important to you: he will nod his head and give congratulations or condolences (—sincere—): but that kernel is localized to you. it isn’t something he could take up inside himself.

(: as if we’re all just spiral wishing wells: each our own vortex which bottoms out in a hole. and everything spins down —)

sometimes i would like to be a spiral wishing well. sometimes i would like to ignore these kernels in myself. (—too much spark, too much singe.) there is rest in the spaces in which the other person leaves these little dense bundles of feeling and meaning well enough alone. and i value the rest, and i value the education in taking breaks from this self-intensity within that rest. (— a chance to repair—). that part isn’t wrong, i don’t think.

but it gets wonky, when there’s a pressure to cast all you say as straightforward, but there is something to be said that still has strong emotions woven through it. because you can’t say it. that heavy yarn of feeling is suspect; when you suspect (those feelings don’t matter — to him — because: ).
