---
date: "2019-01-01"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: resolutions to change a larger space
---
<!-- # january 1: resolutions to change a larger space -->

social spaces have norms for behavior. what is acceptable here? what is expected here?

the ecosystem that is you is a social space as well. resolutions seem to be conscious attempts to change the norms of the space of self — to create new norms for oneself. we usually expect that we can actually bring about these changes: the target behaviors are subject to one’s own will. but, of course, one does not always bring resolutions to success. sometimes you don’t manage to actually change the set of norms for yourself. there is a gap between the will and the full ecosystem of self.

this gap does not seem to me so different from the gap between one’s will and some larger social space one participates in. perhaps, then, we can make resolutions to change the norms of larger social spaces we participate in. sure, there’s no guaranteed success — but there was no guaranteed success in the case of the self, either.

resolutions to change the norms of some larger space may of course reduce to resolutions to attempt to change the norms of that larger space. this is how it goes, with willing. but — is this not also what happens with resolutions for oneself alone?

i am thinking now about the friendships i have, the classroom discussions i participate in, the corners of the internet i frequent. how might i try to re-norm those spaces this year? and in turn, how will i try to change the norms for my own behavior in ways that affect those spaces?
