---
date: "2019-01-28"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: how are you?
---
# january 28: how are you?

“how are you?” we ask each other. sometimes, we are performing a social nicety, rather than asking a question; sometimes, we are asking genuinely but still know that the other person is bound by pressures to appear okay to say they are fine. but despite the fact that external circumstance often dictates the answer, the question “how are you?” itself (*) asks about someone’s internal state. i am starting to question if this question is, in common circumstances, even a reasonable question to pose casually at all.

last semester, when friends asked me sincerely how i was doing, i tried to answer sincerely, also. and quickly i realized: “how are you?” is often a difficult question to answer.

first: usually, i had to stop for a moment and actually check with myself — how was i feeling? — because that question, asked casually, usually came in a context in which i wasn’t actively feeling anything at all. i would be focused on work, or a conversation, or just thinking, and in those situations, i learned, i am often not attending to my emotions at all. i do not know in what sense we feel emotions which we feel passively: but i did become familiar with the experience of discovering i was happy (— not discovering that i had reason to be happy: seemingly-discovering that i was already happy). it makes me wonder: is this part of why “i’m fine” is such a common, easy response to the question? — because, no matter what you are in fact feeling, more often than not, you’re feeling it passively, and “fine” fits the phenomenological experience pretty damn well?

(*) okay, this isn’t how meaning works. but! bear with me.

***

but moreover — emotional states are funny and complicated things. feelings layer; you have emotions about your emotions; they aren’t unified — some parts of you may be appreciative and delighted while other parts of you are in mourning. a persons’s mind is a complicated, tangled jungle, and it makes me laugh to think that we seem to be expected to be able to come up with a one or two word summary of it all.

even worse: i get the sense that not even every one or two word description will do -- that what the question really asks is you to place yourself on a scale from really bad to really good. but this is almost absurd. i remember using a journaling app, near the end of high school, that asked the user to record their emotion at the time of writing from a list on which the emotions were linearly color coded, from red to bright green. it drove me mad: what if i was frustrated and confused, but in a good way? — what if i was content and melancholy but together those feelings were incredibly intense? i had to stop using the app. i wasn’t comfortable with this red-to-green scale.

these days, i have largely stopped judging my feelings as good or bad, a feeling i would in general want or a feeling i would not in general want. sometimes, i recognize them as inconvenient, or painful, or delightful, or appropriate, or silly — but most emotional states seem to have their place. and sometimes i am feeling a lot — feeling intensely — and i realize that what i am feeling is neither good nor bad, it simply is. it can be disorienting, to feel this way — when people ask, or when i try to figure what i like or do not like. but most of the time, it just feels right.
