---
date: "2019-04-01"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# april 1: wichita // april fools  

i have been thinking for months, and it is clear — my next step is to find some mediocre small city in the great plains or the south, and to move there. wichita, kansas, maybe (although i’m not sure i could handle the kansas state government) — or maybe south dakota? find a job, a somewhat-frustrating, pay-the-bills job; no career exploration, no interesting niches, not for me now. be brought down a notch. and if it is lonely and slow and empty: excellent — i’m not planning to have a good time. these are my aspirations, upon graduating college.

because what else could a twenty-year-old possibly want? some space to herself to cast off the elitism. contacts with college friends moving to san francisco or new york city just frozen. to be alone in a city that isn’t cool or hip: to navigate a lonely space, to become an adult. and if anywhere i could live would have expectations of me: at least there might be a different set of expectation. get married, settle down, have a family young, be a church-going family. — even if i don’t follow that path, at least that messaging  wouldn’t be amplifying all the other messaging i have been getting for these last years.

it wouldn’t have to be forever. two years, or three, or four, and i could just — move, again. start again. and if i lost the momentum i might have had, coming out of mit — isn’t that the point? i am not a machine, optimizing for living and interesting and fulfilling life.

(it is april first, and i am not sure to what degree i am celebrating today’s holiday. i suppose i myself am fool, my friends.)
