---
date: "2019-01-07"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: proper deepening of intimacy
---
<!-- # january 7: proper deepening of intimacy -->

there are norms for intimacy in a relationship. what patches of vulnerable topics do we talk about openly? when do we twinge with the discomfort of self-disclosure? what topics do we avoid? there are these bits and pieces of self that we share with others, but what gets shared and the order in which it is shared differs in different relationships.

i wonder if there is some grammar for the represented bits of self. if communication allows one to start building a map of another, some partial maps seem more well-formed than others. there is deepening a relationship with someone by sharing a quieter or scarier part of your heart with them, a part that they are ready to see, a part that their map of you is ready to accommodate. but this stands in contrast to oversharing. oversharing sometimes makes a relationship more distant: suddenly one person is left holding the sodden, naked heart of the other in their hands, unsure of what to do with this piece of flesh, unsure of how the flesh stands in relation to the human before them. the piece of the oversharer which the listener had a grasp on did not provide a cradle for the heart, the information. after oversharing, the map you have of someone is somehow not well-formed: it does not fit together quite right.

in a deepening of intimacy, the norms for the relationship shift slightly to reflect a deeper level of intimacy. as the conversational score accommodates new presuppositions, relationship norms accommodate new territories for intimacy. but no wonder it is hard to determine what to do after an incident of oversharing: the norms to accommodate such a level of information would have to have boundaries so far from the well-grounded territory of the relationship (if they themselves were to reflect a well-formed partial map) that neither person would actually know how to function there.
