---
date: "2019-06-30"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# june 30: disingenuousness as performative

how often you know more than you let on —

he asks a question and you act like you are wildly confused even though you are close to a decision. he asks a question and you answer confidently despite your deep-seated doubts and misgivings. he’s not actually interested; or, you don’t know how to articulate your underlying stance; or, you’re tired and sensitive and don’t want to get into it; or, you’re simply in the habit of giving this canned response. or, or, or. speaking genuinely would open you up into vulnerability, and for whatever reason, you are unwilling to be vulnerable in this way, in this situation. being disingenuous creates distance, and often it is a distance that is convenient or feels safe.

sometimes it makes sense to create this distance between what you feel and what you convey. you have an external reason for acting this way, or perhaps you can’t reflectively affirm the sentiment you are disavowing. it’s an actual choice: a decision. you act more assured than you are at the interview, because you don’t endorse your own insecurity. you choose to keep your thoughts on big questions private as they are developing and as you reckon with yourself that these are your thoughts. it is appropriate to be able to regulate the passing-between of ideas and feelings from the ecosystem of your insides to the social or public ecosystem. there are good reasons to filter.

but sometimes i create this distance arationally. i have no reason to be disingenuous. i could speak truly; i could steer the conversation away, or say explicitly that i wasn’t quite willing to talk about it; (—and i swear, sometimes i think i just ought to be a little quieter in the situations that would end up like this— ); but instead, there i am with a misleading answer or a false demeanor. sometimes i say entire and true things but with a breeziness that is betrayal of the reverence and concern i hold for the topic. it feels perverse and performative. and sometimes even i fall into the falsehood.

i have never liked being disingenuous in this way. and it is a relatively new phenomenon for me. but i don’t think i’m willing to do it any more. this is a reaction i want to root out of my system.
