---
date: "2019-06-03"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## june 3: hold me, if you can't give good advice

there’s something you’re wrestling with, and it is taking a toll. weary, perhaps frustrated, perhaps melancholy, you bring it to a loved one. you explain.

one response is advice. proposed solutions to the problem at hand. if your problem is about political theory, you have a conversation about political theory. if your problem is about sex, you have a conversation about sex. if your problem is about god, you have a conversation about god. you work through the problem together. — the conversation is trouble-shooting.

sometimes this kind of digging-in to the problem at hand is helpful. sometimes you solve the problem! and sometimes, even if you don’t, what you needed was just to explore it, to come to a different kind of understanding about it. — but sometimes, oftentimes, intellectual exploration is not what you needed at all.

sometimes the problem at hand is not the actual problem. sometimes attempts at advice or parsing-through are not the things which will help. — sometimes, you just need to be held.

your friend looks at you, and she sees the exhaustion in you; she sees the sadness in you; she realizes that this is hard for you, that this question or situation is weighing on you. she lets you cry and supports you. instead of trying to articulate the problem, you let yourself exhale.

sometimes, in that cradling, you re-orient yourself. the problem you were wrestling with, you do not dissolve or leave behind, but rather face more steadily, holding it (carefully, softly; with curiosity and hesitation) in your hands. you understand, now, that you can continue to bear this problem; it is heavy, but you have learned how to hold it so that you can carry it, safely. you are empowered to live. support helps.

sometimes i think that what i need is advice, when what i really need is just to be held. i don’t have a coherent enough articulation of the problem that i can make someone understand what exactly the problem is or why it is weighing so heavily on me. and yet, it is there; and yet, all i really need is a listening ear and a patch of kindness.
