---
date: "2019-01-10"
tags: 
  - snippets
---
# january 10: keeping secrets

some things, you hold tight to your chest and tell no one.

this condition of silence need not be motivated by shame or fear or loneliness. or at least, holding this fragile thought need not be burdensome, painful. the ideas themselves might be overwhelming, inviting of sorrow. but some tender thoughts ask to just be held.

the experiences marinate. you grant yourself the space to process fragments of the life you are living. there is no timeline on which you seek to bring your thoughts to open air: divulging secrets is not the goal — you are not some factory for producing words ready to speak. sometimes resting with you is the proper place for a thought to be.

and you can feel its warmth against your skin, and you can hear your heartbeat echoing through it. there is strength in letting it rest with you, some deep internal affirmation that it is okay to hold it close. you create yourself, when you hold things close. you build threads of consciousness that go only through you; you fill yourself up.

and then it breaks, and you’ve said it, and it’s gone. you feel lighter; you feel its loss. after all: the truth you’ve told was still a partial truth. a partial truth for a partial narrative for a partial map. you know your own secrets—but sometimes when you tell them, you do not share them. sometimes, the other could not have the context to understand.

is this not an essential part of our condition? — one more structural obstacle to radical altruism. that we experience this gathering of self. that building up selfhood makes you feel more solid, more full. i feel more embodied when there is a secret i am aware of keeping.
