---
date: "2019-01-23"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: two meanings/a bigger meaning
---
<!-- # january 23: two meanings/a bigger meaning -->

the meaning of a word can be treacly.

a friend of mine breaks down his usage of words into clear definitions as past-time: i’ve been using this word in this way and in this way, he’ll say to me, and then will designate some marker to be used to distinguish the uses. senses of a word, for him, are related only in vague and coincident ways. it’s not unlike the aristotelian notion of substance, that being doesn’t mean anything over and above some various categories of being. in this view — you don’t lose anything when you separate out the definitions.

i heard someone today talk about “the end of the world” taking “end” in a teleological (rather than apocalyptic) sense. it was jarring, but it didn’t feel like it was merely clever — there was something in that maneuver more weighty than just manipulating a homonym. there really is some sense of “end” that was underlying both understandings, and so this twist was grounded. you would lose something to separate these two senses of “end” completely. sometimes changing the salient sense of a word can be profound.

i’ve had this image in my head for a while, of two people in an exchange: “i love you,” one says, and the other responds, “i love you, too” — but the second person knows that the sense in which they mean their use of “love” is oh-so-different from how the first person must have meant their token of “love.” for months, i have thought this image was unsettling, even tragic. the two people were not in agreement at all, and the co-opting of lovers’ words so thought to mean something just — comes up empty.

but now i’m wondering — if it is true that each loves the other, is there not something dear and profound about their being able to share in the sentiment? can the two people be accessing (or even creating) some meaning of “love” which envelops both of their connections to the other? are they not using or building language to fit the quirks of their relationship, in a way that is almost radical?

certainly this shift only works if they both have understanding of how the other feels. but if it is the case that the two are truly communicating in that exchange — it might not be happy, but it might yet be powerful.
