---
date: "2019-01-29"
tags:
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-1
title: seeing the reasons straight
---
<!-- # january 29: seeing the reasons straight -->

sometimes, it takes another person looking straight at you and asserting a fact about you before you trouble yourself to believe it.

a dear friend of mine was convinced for years that she didn’t like school. never mind her joy at learning, education, and indeed, formal schooling —never mind the way she sparks in the classroom, the way reading and discussing lights her up inside: she really thought she didn’t like school. finally, during her sophomore year in high school, her therapist called her out on it, suggested that, uh, maybe she loved school. the comment sunk in immediately as true. all her conceptual scaffolding around the idea of school had been pointing to her love of it: she just needed to be directed to the obvious before she could realize the obvious.

there’s a notion that one ought to be subjectively rational (e.g., to hold consistent beliefs). niko kolodny writes about the sense in which this ought of rationality is normative. roughly, he says, there are patterns in the way that reasons hang together, and to be rational is to have beliefs which obey these patterns. so, according to these patterns, if you have some set of views, you might already be in a position to believe you have reason to hold some other view V: the reasons for your initial views ‘fall through’ the structure of the views into being reasons for the view V. this is something like the ‘ought’ in subjective rationality: you already believe you have reason to believe what you ought rationally to believe — so just believe it! this view makes sense of the experience of another person’s comments on (the inconsistencies in) our states of belief as advice.

sometimes, we fail to be rational. we hold inconsistent views; we forget to take our beliefs to their full conclusions. but when someone points out a discrepancy to us, when they show us (consciously or not) to a way to resolve that tension — we can interpret their speech like advice, and incorporate it into our beliefs, sometimes almost immediately. it can happen so quickly because it already rings true: we already believe we have reason to believe what they are suggesting — we just hadn’t gotten around to believing it, yet.
