---
date: "2019-06-14"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## june 14: me, a four o'clock flower

the texture of a river like the texture inside me. the deep; a body. (waves and muscle.) the surface of the charles is not smooth, tonight, but its movement is smooth, its movement is organic. and it is evening, and the water is dark, and the light reflecting off its surface shines white, and the breeze is sweet and cool. this is early summer on the dock; and i am alone, and the happiness i feel is clean.

walking across the bridge i felt full. radically unencumbered and myself all the way through. muscle and guts and platelets, all. my body is not a shell, it is a body. i am not a shell, i am myself. there’s a way of holding myself that emanates out from this fullness, a holding of myself as whole. shoulders relaxed, self relaxed. (the kind of posture where you’re not thinking about god, but you might as well be praying.) — something real and important and good. a sort of relief.

i have written that friendship and community help to ground me — help to anchor me in space and in myself. but sometimes there’s a friction, to being with other people. questions of how to articulate and how to behave; attention to others’ responses and to your own; a pacing which is not self-paced. in some phases, there’s more of that friction (of relationship, between two externalities) than in others; and i have been in a season of coarseness.

and so there’s something to being alone, full in yourself; like a four o’clock flower, blooming in the quiet night.
