---
date: "2019-05-25"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# may 25: neglecting to broach a problem

neglecting to broach a problem in a friendship indicates trouble.

not all points of tension or imperfections constitute problems. there are quirks of being in community with people which may annoy you, or frustrate you, or anger you, and that are nonetheless okay. you work it out, or you don’t; you live with it, and maybe you even embrace it. — but problems are the ones that hurt you.

phrased this way, it seems almost obvious. of course you should be wary of relationships in which you regularly feel like you are being stabbed by small knives. but sometimes i forget that problems which are bearable still are problems. but indeed. even if i know the other person doesn’t mean to hurt me, even if i believe i can shoulder that pain: the hurt still is hurt. there is still a problem to be addressed.

sometimes i fail to address these problems because i doubt that the other person can or would do anything to stop the hurt. of course, this reason indicates a fundamental standing back from the other person. such distance may be appropriate, but it does not indicate close friendship. so if i think that relationship is intimate and healthy, i probably ought to think again.

maybe one is nice, to not address the problem. to never let the other person realize that they are hurting you, or to never make them have to face that fact. but swallowing the problem rarely is kind. subjecting yourself to this hurt is not merely a sacrifice of self: there is a paternalism within that silent self-sacrifice. you disallow your friend the power to see and stop that hurt. you make the decision /alone/ to let this close friend continue to steamroll over you. either the friendship is disingenuous, or you are dishonest. — how would the other person feel, to know what you are doing?

this isn’t to say that quietly bearing hurt is always the wrong move. we live in a non-ideal world; sometimes it is appropriate to remain quiet, for the safety of yourself and others. but if you think the relationship is healthy and intimate, and that you are being kind: be careful. niceness is perverse, it is insidious, and it is dangerous.
