---
date: "2019-07-05"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# july 5: norms around sharing

some stories and thoughts i tell only in response to genuine question. it isn’t that they’re secret; it isn’t that i am averse to articulating them; it’s that they’re heavy. if i don’t have reason to believe you want to deal with them: why bother?

close friends often get told these things in response to light questions. i know that these people i love, who love me, care about me and want to know what is going on in my life. there’s little space-setting required, because the space is never too far from active vulnerability. i check in; i check my close friend has the capacity; i speak, and we talk. but the bar to sharing is higher in cases of more distant friends. will it be helpful to you to hear this thought? will it be helpful to you to understand this about me? but most saliently: do you really want to know what it is i’m thinking? (not abiding these questions would, for me, lead to oversharing.)

he asks me questions and i can never tell how much he cares about the response. he assures me, i can answer now or later in the evening; a month from now, or never at all. i appreciate that he is trying to build this space for me. — but the space is too wide. when it comes down to it, i do think this radical lack of expectations is suspect. some things i do need to be held to. so while i might not owe him anything more that i owe just about anyone else: to keep affirming that fact just points out again the fundamental unseriousness of our friendship — and it undermines his question itself, his serious-sounding question. so i (rightly, wrongly) stay quiet.

i need to re-norm this space. to make it clear that, if i don’t want to answer, i will say so. to make it clear that i will set boundaries; that action and inaction do not all have to be invited forth from me. i don’t think i’ll uncover a genuineness underneath: but perhaps even then there will space for me to share what is helpful.
