---
date: "2019-01-08"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: self-accessibility is sketchy
---
<!-- # january 8: self-accessibility is sketchy -->

how much of yourself is accessible to you?

expected utility theory is motivated by a hope that we can make a decision theory actually suitable to be used by a subject. it asks you, take a look at your options; and for each option, think of the outcomes. given that you take some option, how likely do you think some outcome is of occurring? and how good do you consider that outcome to be? — and then declares, pick the option which yields the highest expected utility. the hope is that expected utility theory can function as a decision theory for an agent — that you can at least approximate how likely you think events are to occur, that you can at least approximate your preferences and the degrees to which you hold them. but i worry: if you ask me how likely it is that some event will occur, usually i am at a loss. i am simply stopped short. five percent? fifty? twenty percent? eighty? — i have no idea where to locate myself in probability space. and it is not so different with preferences, either: do i actually have any idea what i want, what i think is good?

when a friend comes back and says, i do not know why i did the things i have done, is she serious? is it true that, with a little reflection, sooner or later her motivations and desires will come clear?

sometimes we engage in the activity of modeling our own behavior. we construct narratives that explain what we have done and why we continue to do the things we do. i think we think that these narratives we are spinning are true. but what if sometimes our narratives are wildly off? — or what if there are no narratives that can be coherently drawn at all? what if our professed self-understanding is mostly fantasy? and even further: i suspect that sometimes the narratives we spin actively affect the mechanisms by which we think and act. i am not so sure we can reflect on our behavior without changing it.

we are subtle psychological beings, and ideas of truth and falsity of particular, casual explanations of our interworkings seem gelatinous at best.
