---
date: "2019-04-29"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# april 29: april roughness

late april: a roughness. anger and annoyance. i have not been honest with myself.

it happens every year — perverse clockwork for perverse motivations. i come down to the end of my rope, exhausted: and inside the hollow of my chest, i begin to see i’ve been frustrated and flattening for longer than i could have imagined. there’s no horror in the realization. just the feeling that wet sand has filled my liver now, and i can feel it there, grainy and heavy, and maybe there’s a bitterness inside of me, a bitterness that feels foreign to me. — every bitterness still feels foreign to me. (these states? — they are not what i am striving to be.) and i wonder what to do.

because if there’s a perversity there — if i am uncovering an attitude that does not regard this person before me as a human, a full human, a complex and dear and wonderful human, a human capable of understanding — there’s a reason. “fine,” i wrote, two years ago, “that’s fine.” — i accepted that sandiness inside of me, and though i felt frightened of myself, and saddened by myself, i felt no shame. of course i had forgotten he was an actual person: little else could have been expected from someone in my situation. it’s not justification, but it is explanation. and here i am again. the characters have changed, but the feeling is the same. sandy, sandy, sandy.

but this year, i can’t just accept it and move forward. it’s care and it’s distance and it’s history and it’s love and it’s messy and it gets between my toes and stays there. and my skin is rubbed raw as i walk, and by the end of the day, it’s bright red and it hurts.

they say love is a practice, from which emotion arises: but what do we do, once the emotion has fallen?

i wish i could apologize genuinely for not seeing you fully: but try as i might, i still can’t see you as whole.
