---
date: "2019-02-25"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# february 25: glowing green parasite (i shattered)

sometimes we tire ourselves out. to be going and going and going, and the complexity inhabits you like a glowing green parasite, and it controls your nervous system now, and you can feel those strange tendrils creeping through you, occupying you. the twining around rises something in you, and there are tears rising in you, but maybe they are caught in you belly, in your gut, and maybe they’re not coming, and maybe the emotions aren’t coming, and maybe it’s taking all you can give to keep your skin intact, to keep the shell of you from glowing green, to keep yourself appearing as a human organism, put together.

but there’s a breaking point.

(—oh, how i have to hope there’s always a breaking point.)

there’s a breaking point, and you crack yourself open and push that green, clinging creature out of the sinews and joints of your body. and the tears that were rising before finally fall; and you fall. you let that creature escape, and still cracked open, you fall back. is it so surprising, that you can’t support yourself any longer? you make a little bed for yourself, and you rest there. maybe you have to recover before you can feel the emotion. maybe you have to get back on your feet before you can feel anything at all.

sometime, it is hard to live with yourself. to live as as yourself. even when you are so familiar with your patterns and responses and motivations, sometimes memory does not feel like enough.

and so i find myself in need of rest.
