---
date: "2019-01-02"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: resolutions in face of goal/ideal gap
---
<!-- # january 2: resolutions in face of goal/ideal gap -->

i was thinking yesterday as resolutions as encapsulating an attempt for a change of norms. this, however, does seem structurally to be the creation of an ideal for oneself — not a total ideal, but some specification of a way of being. this is why one must be so careful making resolutions — it is easy to make them so broad or abstract that it is completely unclear how to live them, or what it would mean to have the resolution be a success. hence all the advice given to make resolutions concrete goals.

but there is still some difference between a goal and an ideal. they are different temporally — you can accomplish a goal at a particular time, but even if you manage to instantiate an ideal, it keeps asking something of you — you have to sustain your commitment to the ideal, as long as you consider it as ideal. there also seems to be a difference in value: a goal is only valuable because one has declared it valuable, whereas we seem to gravitate towards ideals because they contain the seed of value already. but furthermore—

working toward a goal is different from striving to instantiate an ideal. any progress made toward a goal is good. there is some sense in which one can be said to be ‘close’ to an ideal, but it is unclear that this is always worth pursuing — being three-quarters of the way to a utopia might be rather dystopian indeed.

i wonder then, if resolutions are how we deal with the lack of achievability of some ultimate ideals — by creating instead achievable ideals, and setting ourselves on a path toward instantiating those. a well-constructed resolution, then, should have a close connection to a goal, as the experts say. resolutions humanize ideals, and let us think about how to strive toward them.
