---
date: "2019-05-31"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## may 31: frustration // theory and practice

i love frustration, in theory. a reminder that you are not god, that these things do not simply depend on you; a reminder to think out at how these things stand forth so richly. the glass shatters or the deodorant is empty or the battery won’t hold charge; and somewhere in among the inconvenience, the agency shifts outward. you can claim responsibility for these occurrences (— not, my car ran out of gas, but rather, i neglected to fill my car with the appropriate amount of gas) — and probably you should. but there is an experience of frustration which is not frustration with oneself. and that kind of frustration brings this whole world outside of you to the forefront. — and so in theory, i love frustration, because it brings out this relationship with objects and with the world so wholly.

but of course — in practice, i am frustrated by those things that frustrate me. wrangling with a desk for hours, trying to dismantle it, and in these last few days i have cultivated more ill-will towards that desk than i have felt towards any person, ever. i don’t blame the desk itself — the desk has done nothing wrong, but has merely found itself in an unfortunate context. but that doesn’t mean i’m not ready for that godforsaken thing to be in pieces. and i assure you there is no preoccupation with thing theory, in that; and today there has been no second-order love for this frustration, either.

frustration can be a particular emotion (—felt—) or the concept of an emotion (—contemplated—). theory and practice layer in amongst each other; they are intimate with each other; but i wonder, even when words are shared — are meanings also? when you abstract into theory, do you necessarily start talking about something else?
