---
date: "2019-01-16"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: anticipation & quietness
---
<!-- # january 16: anticipation & quietness -->

i was waiting for today. the 16th of january — a date stuck in my head since early december. as each day of winter slipped away, this day seemed almost bloated—so much was slated to happen. i could feel myself starting to lurch towards it a week, maybe a week and a half ago — and then from sunday evening, it was pure acceleration.

but i noticed a few days ago that, as much as all of this felt like a time bomb ticking, wednesday the 16th was not going to feel like a day out of the ordinary. there would be a reconfiguring of people, sure — new members & old friends, all shifting around — but nothing was set to explode. none of this shifting was going to have terribly prominent effect. it seemed odd, a little silly, that i was so concerned about this day on which i didn’t think anything would happen.

the timer hit zero today, and sure enough — this wednesday was not so different from all the wednesdays which came before it. but nevertheless, i could feel it, today. a different set of thoughts and expectations; a different realm of possibility. old thoughts & old concerns invited back. the change, though subtle, was perceptible.

maybe that feeling of lurching— of, hold onto your hat, because it’s getting down to the wire — was all the more appropriate, because this change was so quiet. it is good to be prepared for changes which are big and loud and unable to be ignored — but conspicuous changes are not the only changes which matter. i was working against a slightly different set of background assumptions today. i could feel the shade of old patterns, not so far away as they had been. it was subtle — but it mattered. and because i had been so aware of this day, i was ready. i cradled the thoughts as they re-emerged (not so dusty as one might have imagined) from old time.

we will see what comes in the weeks ahead, as whatever will get shaken up gets shaken up and then settles out again. but i am convinced that those weeks start today, on this quiet wednesday.
