---
date: "2019-01-14"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: confusion after ignoring reasons
---
<!-- # january 14: confusion after ignoring reasons -->

a rare confusion: why is what is happening happening at all? the synthesis of what i could tell of my emotions & what i could tell of yours still left a gap, insistently open, between the situation and what i could explain. was i wrong about your feelings? — was i wrong about my own?

we talked it out. your responses came exactly as expected: i had not misunderstood you. indeed, i had predicted every particular that dripped from your lips. a satisfactory account, sure: but it still did not account for my confusion, for this gap.

and yet i left that conversation in an onslaught of feeling. i wrote before, perhaps i found myself in that surprise of a flood because the reality of it all finally sunk in. but what does experience reality mean but facing the implications and consequences of the facts at which you are gaping?

it wasn’t that i had the reasons wrong. it was that i had been acting out of accordance with my own structure of reasons. you saw no confusion: you saw no delimiting boundaries on this behavior which would require justification to pass over. it was just action, just situation, just ways in which bodies and brains could be configured.

meaning arises in our human interactions mostly because we ascribe meaning to interactions. hence — sometimes we do not ascribe meaning, and sometimes we reconfigure the meaning we have reacted. but nonetheless sometimes we hold close to the meaning we have ascribed. sometimes we have to call upon ourselves to respect meaning we have created.
