---
date: "2019-07-08"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# june 8: a summer's day

it felt like summer, today. the sun warm on my back; i remembered that, in the summer, just-a-little-warmer-than-what-i-would-have-liked is exactly what i do like. radiant, forceful is that heat: it touches every part of you, of your insides. it was the kind of day, today, which urges you to be outside.

a day for gardening. a day for finally-getting-around-to-painting-the-porch. a day for taking a bike ride or scampering around a playground. a day for playing pretend, for gathering up dirt and harvesting honeysuckle branches and collecting sap from the pine trees. a day for playing outside.

and you could almost smell dinner cooking on the grill; and you could almost see the little girls with chlorine in their hair wrapped in brightly-colored towels by the poolside; and i remembered the hot summer days of my childhood— reading books on my stomach in the sunshine, leaving handwritten messages for a friend at our dead-drop location outside the local elementary school, making and thinking and skipping and swimming and playing.

summertime is not a subtle season. it’s not soft, it’s not hesitant: it’s bright and hot and time for water-balloons and ripe peaches and the chemical scent of waterproof, spray-on sunscreen.

i didn’t know what to do with summertime, today. obligations lost or changed, as always; the people around me different, as always; time wide. i felt like summer had replaced my heart — that wasn’t the problem. but what do you do to play outside when you aren’t a ten-year-old in suburbia any more?
