---
date: "2019-09-01"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# september 1: starting to drink

a non-event; not hollow but fluid; not a break but a continuity.

you can call anything an event. mark it out by a name; imbue it with significance. —  i swear it makes sense to consider this cross-section, you say. i swear it makes sense to consider this grouping of moments and cells, all together as one. — oh; if you’re thinking to create vocabulary for yourself; if you’re thinking to mark out time and space; you can do it. sometimes it’s so easy to do, you almost can’t help yourself.

but just because it’s easy to mark out some beads of experience with names, doesn’t mean those are the heart of your experience. doesn’t mean those are the times and places at which change happens.
no — change, so often, is more subtle than that; more murky. a viscosity inside of you: and it spreads within you, slowly, at odds with itself. at first, you’re not sensitive to it. but it gains in volume, dynamic inside of you, oozing inside you — and one day you start to feel it; in your gut. till, eventually, you realize. till you can see it; till you understand; till you comprehend who you have become. and even then, it might still be months before the change breaks the surface. yes— change is treacly. even breakthroughs are long to congeal; and sometimes the heart of the change, is buried inside of you.

some experiences look new; from the outside, they would be new; but you know. — you know what has been inside of you, these last months; and you are familiar to yourself.
