---
date: "2019-02-14"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## february 14: to love a friend

i tell my friends i love them. —i do love them. i cherish them, and i feel affection for them, and i care about them, so much. and almost always, it is so straightforward to say that. a friend says something so quintessentially herself, and we laugh and i tell her i love her. or parting words, and i tell him, “have fun, love you!” —and the variants come up even more often. “sending you love and strength,” i will say, or “much love,” and i mean it.

there’s only one memory i have of telling a friend i love them, and having it sit strangely within me. it was high school, early spring. he and i had known each other for years, but our friendship was new and tentative and tender, with that gentle, unsure intimacy of having encountered someone as an individual only one or two or three times. we were standing on the deck outside in that cold spring sun. it was passing time, after lunch it must have been, and students were streaming back into the upper school. he and i said goodbye, exchanged those casual, so casual words of love, and then he left, merging into that stream of students. but there was a moment when he looked back at me, and something dropped in my chest.

within me was a weight, a heaviness which felt important and sad and dear and relieving, all at the same time. it wasn’t that i realized my feelings for him were romantic: rather, i realized how serious and deep platonic feelings could be. the care i felt was pressing; and for the first time i recognized, it wasn’t child’s play anymore.

being close to another person: holding them, and their thoughts, and their belief and fears and hopes and questions and tears. the care that emerges in the unfolding of a friendship. surprising depth, that becomes more mundane and more holy over time, but never ceases in the surprise. the experience, when a friend is absent, of knowing what they would say, or what they would giggle at.

i say “love,” and i mean it, and sometimes i am struck by what it really is to mean this word.
