---
date: "2019-03-30"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# march 30: pain of changing ethics

a pain in the heart. she was trying to explain herself, to explain her behavior — not to me, but to herself. it is hard, when you are diverging in belief from the ethical system you have been taught, but cannot yet articulate what you do believe, to explain why your actions, now starting to peel away from accordance with the old beliefs, still are ethical. because you try to explain, and you have a glimmer of a reason why you did it, but that reason doesn’t fit into a larger picture yet, and so your reflection immediately opens up into the system you are in the process of rejecting. she didn’t feel guilt: but she couldn’t articulate why she thought she was doing the right thing, and so there was this hole, this gaping hole inside of her, a rabbit hole, an abyss, and she edged around it, gingerly, because how could she look straight into that dark oblivion of confusion?

it made me worry about her. it made me worry about the process of picking up values and judgements of the people around you, without quite integrating them into your own system of beliefs. about the tensions and heartache of going through change. even in static states, we are often incoherent: and i do believe that incoherence should be embraced, as part of our humanness, as part of our love for each other — we are not machines of consistency for acting rationally. but in times of change, the incoherence is exacerbated, and while that’s not a bad thing  (rather, a good and necessary one)— it does seem hard on the soul.
