---
date: "2019-05-14"
title: "free to move (in god or nihilism)"
tags:
  - snippets
  - bigThoughts
---
there’s a question that dances uncomfortably in me: are we human to the core, or is there a nothingness below even that? — a question that worries me, but does not concern me.

it is relieving, to think there is a core of meaning, something to hold onto. god loves you whether you want him to or not. sin i might; sin i will; but with sin granted, i still have to push through. regardless of the mistakes i make or the fallout of my actions, i have to keep striving to be kind and graceful and loving. or, alternatively, as in korsgaard: there’s no giving up the human identity. that’s why we can have practical reasons at all, how we get normativity at all. however you have betrayed yourself in the past, this is an identity you still have, and an identity you still need to serve. — and so you find yourself with something unconditioned, with something you cannot break, no matter what goes wrong.

these are substantive views. but what if you don’t have faith in them? — what if you can’t find a ground in anything?

there’s a disappointment. and there can be a depression. maybe even a recklessness.

but nihilism sometimes seems relieving, too. — like the lack of meaning is something to hold onto itself. and indeed: if nothing matters, then certainly my performance on an upcoming exam doesn’t matter. and so i am freed to study hard, to learn, and to try my best, without the stress or fear or anxiety underneath. the worst that can happen isn’t worse than the best that can happen. it all just is. some days, it seems easier to work with nihilistic despair than everyday worries.

i don’t know how stable or warped all of this is. is this posture perverse, to appeal to god or nihilism in order to be empowered to face the mundane? i say sometimes that we have to find human-level meanings, so latching onto nihilism below or theism above is a move i am wary of. is this posture rooted in anxiety?

but whether it is or not, it does seem to work. i pray and i despair and i get through the day empowered. that doesn’t mean i endorse the posture — even if it is healthy enough, it isn’t necessarily good, and i have reflection to do on that front, too. but here it is, for now.
