---
date: "2019-03-11"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# march 11: self-creation paralyzed as self-assertion

aren’t all actions acts of self-assertion? when i make a (sufficiently reflective) decision, am i not stating that i think this is the right option to take? do i not say, my values align with this choice, and this choice is permissible?

i have to be careful with myself, sometimes, when attention to self-assertion runs amuck: when i find myself paralyzed by the reflection borne of checking, is the self-assertion in this action, an assertion i want to be making? — and sometimes, i am able to put the blinders on and move forward. but ultimately, i think the cases in which i am able to force myself out of paralysis are cases in which i doubt that the self-assertions i seem to think are present in some action are actually present in that action.

because when it comes down to it: i do think the assertions in these actions are real, something to be mindful of. i think i have to take myself seriously as an agent. in kantian ethics: we are supposed to will ends that have value, and the categorical imperative indeed arises as a sort of grammar for willing which will allow pursuing ends which have relative value (e.g., are good-for me) to actually be valuable. but of course, in kant, that initial relative value is person-relative: our choices matter; things are valuable because we value them.

there’s a tension here. i remember coming to recognize what it feel like to affirm self-assertion in the case of boundary preservation. to check in with oneself and say: yes, this is in fact what i want; this is in fact something i think is proper. but i have come to view boundaries as something discoverable — there is something outside of my will that is guiding what is good-for me.

but of course the higher cases don’t feel quite like this. i don’t feel like i am something for myself to discover. i participate in my own self-formation. my choices matter.

perhaps that is why some of this is so hard. i do not know my boundaries on self-assertion, because (excepting permissibility) there are no boundaries on self-assertion — whatever i will choose will be appropriate. but it is hard make a decision by anticipating possible future transformations in your values.
