---
date: "2019-07-03"
title: "narrative // particularity // data"
tags:
  - snippets
  - bigThoughts
---
the sheer amount of particularity: i cannot comprehend every blade of grass. it is too much to process.

i move through this world and i generate an ocean of facts. where did i step and what did i think and how much feeling was in me. a myriad myriad particulars, every moment of the day.  it is too much all to hold at once.

we draw narratives about the world and about ourselves. sift through these particulars; find as salient. draw lines to connect these pieces of experience. (a plot arc? a prediction curve? a constellation?) bind-together these various particularities and ignore the rest. narratives are reductive and abstract. so you can hold them in your head and move forward.

avoid discrepancies; let your narrative correspond to the particularities it lays claim to. but what does it mean, to tell the right story? — to tell a correct story? — narratives are human; abstraction is human; but truth is particular; god is in the particularities. remember that even a narrative itself is a particularity.

we will try our best to process and we need not fear. storytelling is human construction, for human ends. so if the story falls apart in your hands: then the story falls apart in your hands. be responsible: tread lightly: but do not fear. narratives are how we get a hold.

.— but i am not the only one making-sense of me.

i move through this world and i generate an ocean of data. where did i step and what did i google and how many clicks did i make. a myriad myriad particulars, moment after moment. you’re generating an ocean of data, too. we all are. this flood is too much for me to hold, too much for me to process.

there’s an itch in me, as the data heaps up. as the ways of sorting through that data get more and more refined. (decontextualized words float vaguely through me. algorithms and machine learning and lacking-a-soul.) because suddenly story need not be the medium: the scale is so big, you can just brute-force the way to prediction. to understanding.

i fear lack of narrative. unbeknownst to me, a gaping whole in my chest: a failure of self-knowledge // or maybe there’s nothing to know. the method may be obscured, but its results might still be haunting.
