---
date: "2019-06-17"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# june 17: rennovations

my room feels different, now. it’s less sculptural, somehow. i lost something, in the re-arranging of the furniture.

it’s functional, now. ample space to move about, to access what needs to be accessed. no friction. i can glide through it.

but it’s also nonsense, now. it’s like this little rectangular room of mine has been sliced in three, without any clear delineations between them: bedroom, open plan living room/kitchen, greenhouse. strange plants hidden away from the rest of the room, with a grow-light that nevertheless keeps the whole room bright, — bright! — when it is on, so that from here, you can just see a strange, illuminated gap between the wall and the edge of the bedroom proper. from this perspective, i can see how /spliced/ together it all is. in this decontextualization, even the bed barely seems like a bed. — just a raised teal rectangular prism, orientation undetermined.

everything is off to the sides, now. (some sides are imaginary yet thick.)  it feels like the core of the room, considered as a unity, is empty; it feels like the room has lost its heart.

(— was this table the heart of the room, before? )

when i moved the furniture, i didn’t move the art on the walls; and now everything feels lopsided. an L-shape of related prints encompasses two sections, emphasizing and making more eerie the illuminated gap of the greenhouse. there are frames above the bed, and bizarre emptiness across from the table. this art is not arranged so that it feels natural for people to be looking at the important pieces. will it work, to readjust? (— i  am tempted to rearrange the furniture again, before i readjust the art; i am tempted to be restless. —)

but i do like this gliding. — there’s something so smooth about the way i can live in here, now. —

(— was i the heart of the room, before? —)

the fig tree was me, and the picassos on the wall were me, and this table was me. the spots of emphasis — the aesthetic impacts — those little peaks of intensity — were well-placed and deliberate, in a way i have failed to recognize before. i will salvage this space again: will equilibrate with my heart, will make the topography of emphasis a topography fit for me.
