---
date: "2019-01-05"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: forgiving non-free things/people
---
<!-- # january 5: forgiving non-free things/people -->

i wrote yesterday about anger without blame and about forgiveness as healing. i think that these sense of anger and forgiveness might actually be helpful in the cases where the reason one hurts is something one cognizes (at least in part) as an emergent (or oddly self-perpetuating, or otherwise oddly-hard-to-account-for-agency-in) phenomenon, at least if healing is actually something one is going for.

 there you are and someone’s words sting, but you are able to read the dysfunction of their childhood family dynamics, or the debilitation by mental illness, or the deeply socially-ingrained structures of power and oppression, right there in the comment? sometimes it is easy enough to blame the person who has insulted you or stood you up or offended you — they still did something wrong, perhaps, or perhaps they should have known better. (of course, sometimes not: sometimes we are stuck in a bad situation.) but there again is this gap: the person’s agency and responsibility is not the only cause to your pain, and so just facing your pain insofar as it is this person’s fault will leave something lacking. these nebulous phenomena and systems — they cannot apologize. so, if healing is going to take place, an apology cannot be part of the process.

and perhaps the correct responses is to say, i refuse to heal, when this world is so broken. but sometimes — as in the case of a sick friend when you are scraping the bottom of your bucket of grace — you want to heal, to face the pain, to not be so mired in the hurt. you want or need the anger to fade. i think this might be the place where a conception of forgiveness and anger which takes a full step away from ascription of fault is helpful. it enables you to heal from pain when its perpetrator isn’t able to apologize.

and indeed: sometimes you can see the reasons why the hurt you feel had a basis in something outside of the person who delivered the blow. but i have to imagine that there are so many blows with the same reasons which are just obscured to view. there is something beautiful and free about this idea of being able to experience emotions and healing on something closer one’s own terms.
