---
date: "2019-02-11"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# february 11: death: a comparison of iphone apps

i’ve been getting some — special — phone notifications, recently. past the usual hum of incoming texts, missed calls, new podcasts, and ever-ignored dictionary.com word-of-the-day alerts  — i’ve been getting reminders about death five times a day, plus updates on a snarky, spaceship-wrecked astronaut.

the death reminders come courtesy of WeCroak, an app inspired by a bhutanese saying — “to be a truly happy person, one must contemplate death five times daily.” a philosophy professor last spring mentioned the app to our class when she discovered it: she found herself motivated and grounded by the idea of her mortality, but also terrified at her impending death, and she thought, maybe her life would be better if she faced the idea of death five times a day, instead of once every two or three weeks as had been happening.

i was apprehensive. perhaps regularly contemplating one’s own death is a good thing, but it was unclear to me whether having a phone notification spark that contemplation undermined it. like — should we not learn to call the important things to mind on our own? but about a month ago, i decided to give WeCroak a try. sure enough, it has been faithfully prompting me to reflect on death five times a day, even providing me with a stark, death-related quote with each reminder.
i read the quotes, i think about words like “end” and “mortality” and “temporary” — but i do not contemplate death. i am young; death has not yet hit me where it really hurts. i think i downloaded WeCroak on a hope that it would open me up, make me more sensitive to the weightiness of death: but this app cannot do that.

in contrast is Lifeline, a text-based interactive story that unfolds in real time as you help taylor, who has crashed on a distant moon, navigate this alien territory. i was invested in the unfolding adventure for three days. and this evening, when taylor was lost — my breath caught in my throat. i was shaken. the ending hurt.

it was taylor’s demise, more than any of the 130 reminders of my eventual death, that impacted me most. i am not proud of that. but i am starting to appreciate that sometimes, we need narratives, not notifications, to get into a headspace.
