---
date: "2019-07-15"
title: "locational intimacy"
tags:
  - snippets
  - familiarSpace
---
it’s funny, how space is. the ways we claim it and reclaim it; the ways we feel at home within it, or not.

smooth and round and somehow impassive — in my memory, iu bloomington is full of trees and empty of people. and i came to know the trees, those cool summer evenings, in hours spent wandering alone through the campus. it was a campus that was never mine, yet even now there is an intimacy to my knowledge of that place. — path and parking lot and tall red clock. if it was hallow, it was a hollowness in which i found myself reflected; a space i took up within myself. i know the place to sit on a sunday morning when it’s pouring rain but you still want to be outside, and i know the place to sit when you’re exhausted and can’t stop thinking about god but probably want to. i walked and i walked that summer, and i learned that campus the way i learned loneliness.

i’m in cambridge, this summer; still at mit, still living in the same room. i have friends here, and things to do here, and three years of memories accumulated here. it is not empty. and yet at times these summer evenings, this place has felt more like bloomington than itself. — smooth and round and impassive. the nights are quiet.

i am grateful to be here this summer. to see this place as campus and city, rather than school. i knew my way around before; i knew the layout of the pipes and the places i had cried; but this feeling is more intimate. — somehow akin to moments from my freshman december, before i had a footing here, on nights when it was dark and cold and i was alone and concerned with the sacred; yet now soft.

i wonder sometimes, if this will be the loneliness of my twenties. — quiet, thoughtful nights outside alone, perhaps melancholy, perhaps content.
