---
date: "2019-04-26"
tags:
  - snippets
---
## april 26: sharing self, differently

story-sharing, secret-telling, concept-building, experience-parsing. — there are so many activities we engage in, when we bring thoughts to conversation. and they differ. how much ownership do you claim over what you are speaking about? how formulated is your narrative around it? are you looking for input  — for advice and commentary and diagnoses — or for questions — further probing, directions to explore — or do you just want someone to listen?

i’m starting to wonder about what we share and how we choose to frame it. sometimes the same idea or memory could be brought to a conversation in different ways: but it is often clear to you, given a situation, what the appropriate framing is. certainly something about the people and the context matters, in determining what is appropriate: but often, also, it matters how you are relating to what it is that’s in your heart.

(when you have distance from something, you can tell it as a story for the entertainment of yourself and others. when you don’t have that distance, but you want to, you can tell a story anyways, and hope that, in others’ casual laughter and teasing, you will create the distance. but when you are sensitive about what has happened, or you are confused by it: it would hurt, to tell it as a story, wrapped up with a bow.)

i have written, sometimes holding a thought close helps fortify one’s own self-conception; and releasing that thought, by sharing it, dissolves it. and i wonder if some level of privacy is requisite to self-conception. one might say, no: a whole self-notion can consist in experiences-had and ideas-generated, never mind how those thoughts are then circulated. yet it seems like some ideas need the darkness of privacy to germinate. if everything is a story: has any of it happened /to you/?

true disclosure is a kind of bleeding.
