---
date: "2019-01-18"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: conditionalizing on zero-probability events
---
<!-- # january 18: conditionalizing on zero-probability events -->

sometimes, things happen which i cannot understand. every explanation i think to propose to myself, i somehow do not think is plausible, even if i think it would be reasonable to regard the explanation as plausible. when i ask myself, then, to sort through these explanations, to think of which of them is likely and which is not — i cannot. i am simply at a loss.

sometimes, there are situations in which you can finish out the sentence, “i can’t really imagine this happening, but if it were to happen, it would be because —.” but other situations? you just can’t. you get stuck on the hypothesis of the conditional.

i had these thoughts today and realized: right. that’s why we aren’t able to have a nice mathematical formula for conditional probabilities conditionalized on an event of zero probability. the usual relation (some would say, definition) p(B|A) = p(B&A)/p(A) must of course have the restriction p(a)>0.

the feeling of the situation i am in, then, is akin to asking me my credence in B given A, when my credence in A is zero. but was my credence in this event which i cannot even quite cognize zero? if you had asked me a month ago how likely i thought it that A would occur, i would have given you a number around 20 percent. i wouldn’t have been able to defend my response: the feeling would have been, i don’t know why this would happen, but i need to correct for the sense that there aren’t reasons. but it would seem strange to say that 20% related to my degree of belief in A: i simply did not believe A. in telling you that, this is what i thought the probability was, i was not giving an answer reflecting my internal state; i was given an answer reflecting what i would have thought my internal state ought to look like. in truth, i would have thought i was being unreasonable, but my credence really would have been zero. i simply didn’t believe A would happen, and i couldn’t imagine a world in which it did.

we humans are stubborn. we do not always believe what we think it would be most reasonable to believe. our convictions can be subtle— all too subtle.
