---
date: "2019-08-25"
title: "i wish it didn't have to be real"
tags:
  - snippets
  - aLover
---
it was real with you, a year ago. it had become real. — somewhere along the line, you had become real to me.

i saw you. a sunday night — my heart was full; of emotions, bright and conflicting, all tangled together inside me. there was so much to bear. i did love you.

i lost patience with you, a year ago. i pushed back. spoke with an emphasis that must have been sharp. and you were surprised; and it was real. the bitterness surfacing in you was real, and my frustration was real. we were being real with each other. we all have our flaws.

a transformation out of the strange and pristine. it was really me, there with you. and as far as i can tell, it was you there with me, too. you told me you loved me, and i didn’t know what to do with your impression. we all have our flaws.

it was real when it was tense; and it was real when it was nighttime and we lay together in the darkness; and it was real when i wanted to tell you i would miss you but was struggling to get the words out. i don’t care that you didn’t know me, and i don’t care that i’m not sure i know you. — all of it was real, a year ago.

sometimes when i think of you, i wish it didn’t have to be real. the sweet, strange affection i felt for you; everything i thought about and learned. — i wish i could return to thinking about it as all being contained within me. a learning experience, rather than a relationship with a human being. and i hope so dearly that you have moved on from me, that you are in a better place, now; that you have settled. and i wish i could slink back into the shadows, invisible, with a young and tender fondness still in my heart.
