---
date: "2019-03-01"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# march 1: elevated feelings (be attentive)

some feelings are elevated. profound admiration; profound respect. care and love and trust, in pure form.

and there is so much good in these feelings. elevation grounds our humanity; it opens us to divinity. we become more secure in ourselves when we hold ourselves in right orientation in the world. from i-it, to i-you, towards i-thou: this is movement that matters. (we have so much to learn.)
we find ourselves drawn to these elevated feelings, and for good reason — this experience is such a sacred part of being human. yet: there’s also reason to be wary.

because — sometimes we are attracted to the feeling of elevation itself and seek it perversely. perhaps the elevation is genuine, but it is no longer the time to revel in it, to share it: there are cracks in the transcendence that ache to be held, to be attended to — and you need to heal.

or perhaps the elevation is not elevation at all; perhaps you are chasing a mere imitation of that sacred high. (guilty as charged: i missed the tender care i used to feel — i did not know how to consider myself as fully real, as fully human, in its absence — and i pretended, too soon, that i felt that care elsewhere. i had not. it’s a dangerous game to play: some mistakes hurt.)

be attentive in your experience of this elevation. let it spread through your veins and warm you, carefully, tentatively, softly; let it raise you. but when your relationship shifts — attend to that shift. you can hold on to the relation of elevation, if it is proper; but it is okay to be thoughtful about where you let the experience of that elevation manifest. just because it is a sacred feeling, does not mean it is necessarily the feeling you ought to be attending to and comforted by.
