---
date: "2019-02-26"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# february 26: blossoms // chlorine

a surface: curved in incomprehensible ways, with parallel gridlines, the whole thing the color blue, not like water, but like those illustrations that look chlorinated and watery (—the analogue to cherry-flavored cough syrup and candies, those blue lines, blue surfaces). and scattered around the surface, light pink blossoms. not quite chrysanthemums; not quite flowers. there’s something alive about the blossoms, but also something oddly mechanical, and there’s a vibrance and verve you might have expected out of them, that these placid pink blooms just — lack.

i have found myself, recently, able to toggle into conceiving of myself as a blossom in the scheme of things. indeed, i have been able to toggle into seeing the whole world this way: a chlorine-blue expanse, the graph of some complicated mathematical function, dotted with these pale blooms of consciousness. (if only it were so real a scene as water-lilies floating atop a pond! but there’s an abstraction to it like the abstraction in graphic design. — underwhelming and overwhelming at the same time.)

a blossom: is that me? what could possibly unite these coincident experiences; what could it possibly mean for anything to be mine? last december, when i realized my lack of belief in a soul — i felt loss, and i cried, and i mourned. maybe that was silly: i know in my heart that i had already believed this empiricist view; i knew that from the time i was 16, i had been spinning threads in an attempt to keep my conscious experience more tightly bundled together, and that it had worked. (it worked for years, till those silk-strands started to unravel.) but there’s something strange and sad about giving up hope of a unity for a self.

some days, my blossom-nature feels poetic, empowering, rightly-descriptive — like there’s something amazing and beautiful about the co-incidence of perspectival experiences at all. other days this dotted landscape seems strange and unnecessary and impersonal. but here i am: a blossom of reflective awareness, lost in space.
