---
date: "2019-01-06"
tags: 
  - snippets
  - recommend-level-0
title: norms & conversational score
---
<!-- # january 6: norms & conversational score -->

our relationships have norms for behavior (what is appropriate? what is expected?). part of that is norms for speech acts, and speech more generally: we have notions of oversharing and of lying by omission, which amount (respectively) to overshooting and to undershooting the expectations for disclosure.

of course, what are these norms and expectations? i have a representation of them in my head, and you have a representation of them in your head, and perhaps one or both of us is maintaining an unreasonable representation.

david lewis has a notion of conversational score not too different from this notion of relationship norms; indeed, perhaps relationship norms subsume acceptability conditions in the conversational score. a score has many components which track facets of the conversation (what has been presupposed? what is permissible?). lewis explains what the score is: the score is what the participant’s mental scoreboards say it is — and the scoreboards are whatever mental phenomenon does the best job of changing according to the rules of how score is supposed to change.

perhaps we say that norms work the same way — they are the representations of the norms present in the people’s heads, insofar as they agree, where the representation is picked out by respecting the kinematics of how norms change. when the quirks in this view become a problem for communication — e.g. it becomes clear that two people’s mental scoreboards do not match — the result seems to be confusion or arguing. sometimes we *don’t* have a good handle on what the norms of the relationship are. perhaps i think i have acted in a way (that ought to be) acceptable to both of us, but you think it is unacceptable: our ideas of what the norms of our relationship is do not agree.
