---
date: "2019-06-18"
tags:
  - snippets
---
# june 18: problem solving, a paradigm

problem-solving is a substantive paradigm. it sounds obvious: of course not everything you do when engaged in sustained cognitive activity is problem-solving. but (especially at this dear tech school of mine) “problem solving” is a buzzphrase, and it’s a little strange to say out loud that what you’re doing specifically isn’t problem-solving.

but it really might not be. the exploration, or analysis, or construction you are doing, you might not conceive of as working towards a solution for a problem which needs to be solved. you might consider yourself to be choosing a problem, or articulating a problem, or exploring a space to discover a new problem — or you might well throw out the language of a “problem” at all, and break free of the paradigm altogether. this isn’t necessarily to say that the activity, at surface, simply is not problem solving; after all, a number of my friends regard a remarkable collection of the activities they engage in as problem solving. but it is to say, that problem-solving isn’t your activity. it’s not your paradigm, just then.

i noticed, in my freshman year of college, that problem solving wasn’t a paradigm that i tended toward. i was doing a lot of math at the time, and the math i was doing felt constantly like an exploration, an investigation. there wasn’t a problem i was examining and working from; i was trying to get a sense of a landscape. and, in these last years, the distance from problem-solving i felt has continued uninterrupted.

but i was thinking idly today, about activities i would like to be engaged in, in the future. and i found myself thinking, that i would love to be solving problems — not purely technical problems, exactly, but to be facing, fleshing-out, and responding to problems more-generally. i found myself thinking this, and i burst out in laughter. a first — me actively and particularly wanting to problem-solve!

feels a little silly, but i’m compelled. problem-solving allows you to be embedded in a community more easily than a lot of activities: you take community values (and indeed, problems) as a starting point. and so i am curious to see where this new impulse to the problem-solving paradigm takes me.
