---
title: Rain Pants
category: ??
number: 1
---
Bicycling is my primary mode of transportation in the city, and I was finding myself not wanting to go out when it was raining; it was annoying to get so wet. I remembered something a friend of mine had once said about rain pants, and I bought a cheap pair online. Boom! Life changed. Biking relatively short distances in the rain is now simply not an issue; indeed I almost look forward to it now. The pants block out wind, too, which is again nice on my short, blustery, rainy, often cold rides. But even better: now that I have the rain pants, I've started taking rainy day walks for the first time since I was a little kid. Not having that small annoyance of wet pants means there's no blocker to going out even when it is raining pretty hard. I can even stop and sit on wet benches, no problem!
Are they a little loud? Sure, enough to be noticeable when walking indoors. Is it a little silly to wear plastic pants? I mean, yeah, water droplets literally roll off them. Are they fashionable? Not at all. But are they kind of fun to wear? Absolutely.
I feel just a little fierce in my rain pants, I think. I used to be quite concerned about the aesthetics of the clothes I wore, and put good effort into the outfits I wore; I would not have wanted to be seen in rain pants. But there's been a shift in me, these last years, towards appreciating some good functionality, towards being less afraid of not looking put together. I wear rain pants, and I am delighted because they open up a whole new realm of movement in the drizzly world; and that is enough to count, that is enough to make my silly plastic pants a joy.
